Hear all these stories anywhere you
listen to podcasts on the Let's Read
podcast.
[Music]
My granddaddy was a Texas Ranger back
during the Great Depression. He passed
when I was just a kid, so most of the
stories about him I got from my dad, but
some of them are some real doozies, and
this is probably the one that sticks
with me the most. As you can probably
imagine, the Great Depression meant a
lot of folks turned to crime to make
ends meet, and those already raking in
ill-gotten gains had to really kick
things up a gear to maintain the kind of
lifestyle they become accustomed to.
As a consequence, Cochran County became
the bank robbery capital of West Texas
with banks and credit unions in Morton,
Whiteface, and Bleo getting hit on a
daily basis. Sometimes
a lot of the folks who robbed the
Bledsoe Credit Union tried skipping over
the border into New Mexico, but the feds
got wise to them whizzing off along the
125 and started posting officers over in
Tantum where they could head him off and
take him into custody.
But then not everyone tried burning
rubber down the 125, and a lot more
folks seemed to be getting away than my
Grandpappy and his fellow rangers would
have liked. One time, Grandpappy trying
to track this one bank robber across the
state. And this son of a shot a
female clerk after she spooked him. So,
there's no shortage of tips coming in
from folks who think they spotted either
him or his getaway car. One of these
tips is from a guy who said he was 99%
sure that he spotted the getaway car in
the parking lot of some isolated motel
called the Yellow Rose.
Granddaddy drives out there to talk to
the proprietors, who turn out to be this
nice old couple living on a kind of
semi-retirement out there in the middle
of nowhere. They said the place used to
be fairly lively back before Wall Street
crashed. But by 1932, it was nothing but
a glorified retirement home for him.
Hardly anyone stopped by anymore, and
whenever they did, the two old-timers
didn't bother keeping any kind of
record. They just let folks pay their 50
cent rate, pick up any room they like,
and then check out whenever they cared
to. Grandpappy said that they were both
sweet as pie, and they answered all of
his and his partner's questions, and
they let them both take a look around
the place to their heart's content, and
they promised they'd be in touch if they
remembered anything else. But as far as
they knew, Grandpappy's suspect never
stopped by. And if his getaway car was
spotted in the motel's parking lot, the
guy certainly didn't check in with them
at the front desk.
Grandpappy thanks him for their time,
recommends they start making records
just in case they have to stop by again.
And then off he and his partner go to
chase up other clues.
But the trail goes cold and before long
they're forced to focus on other
fugitives.
A few months go by and my grandpappy and
his partner are chasing up some other
suspect and some completely unrelated
bank robbery when the name of the Yellow
Rose Motel pops up again.
This time it's a guest who claimed to
just so happen to have spotted
Grandpappy's suspect walk into a room
carrying the exact same kind of bag used
in a liquor store robbery. Again, it
seems like they're hot on their
suspect's tails, but then they roll up
to the yellow rose, and it was pretty
much the same story as last time.
No, they didn't have any records of the
guy staying there, but they did vaguely
remember who my grandpappy was talking
about after he showed them both a
photograph. And aside from that, they
were no help.
At that stage, Grandpappy and his
partner weren't exactly suspicious of
the old couple, but they were getting a
tad frustrated at how unhelpful they
were being. They could be forgiven on
account of their age and dispositions,
but still, Grandpappy felt like if it
were any other motel, he'd have both his
robbery suspects in cuffs.
And so a few more months go by and then,
yep, you guessed it, the name the Yellow
Rose Motel pops up in the witness
reports of armed robbery suspect.
Once again, Grandpappy and his partner
drive out there to talk to the owners,
only this time they catch them in a lie.
The witness said the suspect had seemed
nervous and unwilling to leave their
room. This meant the older man of the
couple had to head out to the guy's room
every time he had an issue and
apparently he had many. The man admitted
to having talked to the suspect, but at
first tried to act confused as to which
guest the rangers were talking about,
but then when Grandappy asked if he'd
been in the guy's room long enough to
get a real good look at him, I mean, the
guy lied and said no. Grandpappy and his
partner played it cool. They didn't
immediately throw the guy up against the
wall and accuse him of lying. That
wasn't their style. Instead, they made
it look like they were taking the guy at
his word and then went off trying to
figure out how that nice old couple were
connected to the suspects. And
Grandpappy's partner thought that it was
fairly simple. The old couple were
offering shelter to the robbers so long
as they gave them a cut of their take.
Rent wasn't 50 cents for folks. Oh, no.
It was more like 1,500,
which back then was a heck of a lot of
money. And the only problem was
Grandpappy and his partner had to prove
that this was happening. And considering
they'd already searched the place pretty
thoroughly without anything being found,
they knew that wasn't going to be easy.
They had to wait months before they
heard anything else about the yellow
rose. And when they did, Grandpappy and
his partner just about broke the speed
limit, rushing to get that scoop. The
lead was some bandido. Some other agency
had already apprehended and locked up.
He figured his partner had screwed him
over on the job and so he wanted to get
even. He told my grandpappy that his
partner had not only driven off without
him, leading to his arrest, but he
stiffed him for half of the money, too.
And the plan was that if either of them
got caught and one got away with the
money, they were to make sure that the
other's family was well looked after
while they were in prison. The partner
had failed to do this, so the prisoner
was pissed. He tells Grandpappy all
about their plan, which was to head to
the place called the Yellow Rose, which
helped criminals escape the lawn in
exchange for a cut of the loot.
Grandpappy's partner is just about
hooting and hollering like, "I knew it.
Dag damn it. I knew it all along." But a
crucial piece of the puzzle was still
missing. Grandpappy still had no idea
how the old couple were helping their
guests disappear, and neither did the
prisoner, so there was no putting them
in cuffs till they figured that out.
They thought about it for weeks on end
with their assistant chief breathing
down their necks and demanding results.
And then in the end, Grandpappy and his
partner came up with a plan. They were
going to enlist the help of a third
ranger, one the elderly couple hadn't
met yet, and they were going to send him
in undercover as a potential bank
robberl looking type guy to buy their
services.
They thought the idea was foolproof,
especially after their fellow ranger got
himself firmly into character. They were
dealing with low down, no good sons of
on a nearly daily basis, so
imitating one was as easy as falling off
a log. And all they had to do was be
patient, gain a little trust, and then
they were on for a stakeout.
So, the first step was obviously to have
their ranger buddy approach the couple
while undercover to see if they'd help
him disappear.
He walks in, a couple of minutes go by,
then Aliy comes with a bonafide verbal
guarantee that if he shows up with a law
on his tail, and he pays them a couple
hundred, they'll help him vamoose on
down to Mexico, where the law will never
find him. And after that, it was just a
case of picking a date and time, playing
a phony news bulletin over the radio so
the couple really believed there had
been a robbery and having their ranger
roll up on the yellow rose, tires
screeching and with a big old bag of
money.
On the day of the undercover job, my
grandpappy and his partner went up to a
water tower about a half mile from the
yellow rose, and they watched the whole
thing unfold through a pair of
binoculars.
The man rolls up doing close to a
hundred, runs into the check-in office
like a man possessed, and then starts
yelling about how the cops are on his
tail and he needs hiding.
The older man helps hide his car in the
garage around back. Then they show him
where their secret hiding spot is for
their wanted fugitives. Grandpappy and
his partner are watching as they take
their undercover ranger buddy out of
sight. With the plan being that when the
couple show him what they do with the
fugitive, he pulls a gun and two pairs
of cuffs and then arrest them both.
Grandpappy and his partner had no real
idea how long that was going to take
because how long is a piece of string,
you know? But then 30 minutes go by,
then an hour, then 2 hours, and they get
to wondering what the hell is going on.
There were no wires or anything back
then. Not like all the sophisticated
dooddads they got today. So they had to
just sit and wait, getting more and more
nervous until they decided to head in
there themselves to search the place top
to bottom again. But then they do go in
and they go in heavy. They got rangers,
local sheriff's deputies, even two
federal agents that drove up from planes
at short notice once they heard a Texas
Ranger had gone missing. But it was the
sniffer dogs that they brought along
that found their missing ranger. And
unfortunately, it wasn't cuz they were
trained to smell people. Those dogs were
trained to smell blood. And boy, did
they find a lot of it. Out back near the
garage where the old-timer kept the
fugitive's cars, there was an old rust
bucket of a broken down truck just
sitting there. The dogs were all over
it, or more specifically, they were
sniffing at the ground underneath it
before pointing like they had been
trained to.
The rangers had the broken down truck
moved. Then they take a look at the
patch of dirt more closely until they
find what they're looking for. It was a
carpet or a sort of rug and they brushed
dirt and rocks over it. So unless you
actually walk on top of the thing, there
was no way of knowing it was there. They
pulled it back and right there in front
of them was a big old iron hatch leading
down into what I suppose you call these
days a bunker. And inside that bunker
was what can only be described as a kill
factory.
They had a kill room with a drain and
hose for spraying off all the blood.
They had a processing room where they
could deal with the bodies. But they
weren't just disposing of them in ways
that no one would ever find them. The
complete opposite situation really. They
were imbalming and preserving these
bodies with a sort of special kind of
varnish to stop the skin from rotting.
kind of like a taxiderermist would.
Then when the bodies were all waxed and
dressed and their hair was combed,
they'd pose the bodies in a little room
like they were all hanging out together.
Worst thing is, they weren't doing it
because they got a sick thrill out of
it. At least the old couple claimed that
wasn't the case. They were doing it
because they felt bad for the people
they killed.
They only killed him to begin with
because fugitives were bad folks, as
they put it. And they never would have
killed the ranger if they'd have known
that he was an officer of the law. But
unfortunately, the ranger left it a
little too late to reveal his identity.
And the old-timer hit him over the head
with a hammer. And by the time the cops
got there to rescue him, the old-timer
had just about drained all the blood out
of his body before processing.
They couldn't go burying the bodies on
their property, at least not without
drawing too much attention. And so they
did what according to them was the next
best thing. Created a kind of muscle
where these bad men could hang out in a
nice room with books, a record player,
and a poker table. I'm deadly serious,
too. They bought all that stuff with the
money they got from their bank robbers.
Saw it as the least they could do,
considering they murdered all those men.
It wasn't just the three guys my
grandpappy was looking for either. They
killed four more criminals they figured
had a bunch of illotten money on their
person and they'd been at it for years,
too. It was a very big story around
Cochran County at the time, but I guess
it never took off around the county
because there was no big trial to play
out for the cameras. The older man had a
heart attack in his prison cell. And it
turned out his wife was dying of cancer
anyways cuz she passed away in the night
before they could even get her
arraigned.
Dad said grandpappy never did get over
sending his ranger buddy in there first.
Always said it should have been him. And
I guess that's why he drank so much,
which is why he passed when I was just a
kid. And so all in all, I guess that old
couple played quite a significant role
in my family's history. And it's a hell
of a thing to consider. Even worse when
you remember they considered themselves
good people.
[Music]
My husband had remained close to his
childhood friend, who I'll call John,
well into adulthood. They had met in
elementary school and became inseparable
ever since. When I was dating my husband
and met John, I thought he was such a
nice guy. He had a very docile nature
and a wholesome character. Everyone felt
comfortable around him. John was the
type of person that could get along with
anyone. He was trustworthy, dependable,
and genuinely kind. I was happy that my
husband was able to keep such a good
friend in this day and age when true
friendships are so hard to find. Both me
and my husband are estranged from our
family. So, we were lucky to have
someone like John in our lives and we
considered them like family.
John was a nerd like us, so we had many
of the same interests. We would meet up
every once in a while to grab something
to eat, catch a movie, or just hang out
at the house playing retro board games
and discussing technology.
We all three had a love of computers, so
my husband John often shared with each
other small programs that they could
write. My husband and I built computers
for a time, and John would come by to
give his opinion and advise us on our
projects. I suppose the only curious
thing about John at that point was that
he never really had a girlfriend. In all
the years we knew him, he had always
been single. He never even dated. I
didn't understand why such a nice guy
hadn't found someone yet. Our lives
seemed to evolve and change, but John
just sort of stayed where he had always
been, living with his family and never
became involved with anyone
romantically.
And for a while there, we started
thinking that maybe he was gay and was
simply scared to reveal it since he had
a pretty traditional family who he was
very close to. And though we wandered
amongst ourselves, we never brought it
up to him as it seemed kind of
inappropriate. It would be like we were
invading his privacy or meddling in his
life. And we figured that he would
eventually find someone when he was
ready.
John suddenly moved away to a city that
was 3 hours away. When he told us, we
thought at first that he had decided to
finally move on his own, but we were
wrong. He had actually moved into a home
that his older sister had bought for her
retirement.
Since she wasn't ready to retire just
yet, she was letting him stay there for
the time being. And that's when things
began to change. John sort of fell off
the map. He wouldn't call. He wouldn't
visit nor ask us to come visit him. My
husband and I figured it was because of
the distance.
Also, he was probably settling into his
new place and getting accustomed to a
new city. But time continued passing and
I could tell my husband was really
missing his friend. And I had to admit
that I was too. We had such good times
together and it was so unlike John to
disconnect like that. It was so
difficult to get in contact with him on
the phone and he wasn't very active on
his social media either. And I started
to worry about him. I also didn't want
my husband to continue distancing
himself from his best friend as it could
become permanent. And so I made it my
mission to reignite our friendship. I
called John and arranged for us to go
visit him. Surprisingly, he didn't seem
to even acknowledge the fact that it had
been about 2 years since we had last
seen each other. When we arrived at his
place, I was taken a little back as I
hadn't been expecting what I saw. The
house was in a pretty secluded
neighborhood in the middle of nowhere
actually and I didn't know how he could
get used to it here going from a big
city and all. And also, I hate to say
this, but the house seemed dirty and
messy. And John told us that he had
transferred his job to this new city.
Even though they offered him a
promotion, he had declined it and he
didn't want to work the extra hours. I
looked around and thought that this made
sense since it seemed like John didn't
like leaving the house very much. And I
chuckled to myself as I thought the
house looked more like a bunker than a
home. To my dismay, I saw that John had
his own room, as if he was still a
teenager. In fact, it was decorated as
if that is exactly what he still was. It
was a mess in there. Computers and
computer equipment on the floor, wires
everywhere, clothes thrown about all
over the place. And John said his sister
came to stay every other weekend, so she
had the main bedroom for herself. He
expressed how he hated for his privacy
to be interrupted when she stayed over,
but what could he do? And I thought to
myself that he could just get his own
place, but I didn't say it out loud. We
all decided to go to dinner and browse
some of the stores in the area. and I
couldn't help myself any longer and
asked John why we had lost contact.
It had become so difficult to get a hold
of him lately and he kind of just
shrugged it off and said that he had
been so busy with the move that he must
have lost track of time. He didn't ever
want to lose contact like that with us
again. And he appeared genuine, but
something felt off to me. His answers
were too short and generic, as if there
had been some sort of script or he had
practiced somehow.
My husband told him that he thought that
he would have had his own place by now
since he moved all the way out here. And
John said that it was just financially
easier this way. Again, another short
and very generic reply. I asked him if
he was seeing anyone and he said that he
wasn't in a position to really do that
right now as he really wanted to get his
finances in order first. I thought that
every reply he gave made sense and was
perfectly reasonable, but I also knew
that he was lying. rather he was hiding.
I just didn't know what it was. It was
just this nagging feeling that I
couldn't shake off. And John just didn't
seem like the person that we had known
once. My husband and I drove home kind
of confused, but glad that we had spent
some time with our old friend. And it
had been a long time coming. John
certainly answered all the questions
that we had been curious about. We
believe that now that we had resumed
contact that we would see more of him,
but that didn't happen. John continued
to be distant. His social media
continued to not be updated. But I did
notice something strange. Since I have
him as a friend, I could see whatever he
did that was public. And I noticed that
he was liking Nickelodeon programs and
would sometimes make comments on their
posts. The comments would just mention
how good a show's last episode was, or
how he couldn't wait to find out what
happened next, and I found this kind of
odd. His comments also seemed to have
been written by someone much younger and
not a man in his late 30s who still
watched kids programs at that age. Oh
well, I just chocked it up to John
always having been sort of innocent, I
guess. And besides, some adults still
watch cartoons, right? I suppose there
isn't anything too weird then with an
adult liking kids sitcoms. And I didn't
mention it to my husband. I'm not sure
why. I just felt like I was once again a
little nosy invading John's privacy
somehow. After all, it's not like I had
purposely searched for this information.
Besides, what would be the point of even
mentioning it? It's just TV shows. And
over the next couple of years, John
visited us one time. Once again, I had
to make a monumental effort to get him
to meet with us, even though he traveled
our way often to visit his mother. And I
got this uncanny feeling that John was
avoiding us again, as if he was hiding.
But hiding what? My husband had pretty
much accepted the fact that his
friendship had somehow grown apart and
things would never be as they were
before. No point of continuing to force
the situation. And I resigned myself to
that fact as well. It happens. I figured
it happened more commonly with childhood
friends since people do tend to go in
different directions in adulthood.
Some more time passed and my husband
mentioned John to me. He told me that he
had wondered what he'd been up to and
how it seemed like no matter how hard he
tried, he kept losing contact with him.
I could tell my husband was annoyed and
couldn't call John because he was upset.
And I decided to just give him a call
myself. I hoped he still had his same
number and luckily he did. John informed
me that he had recently moved back in
with his mother. She needed him to be
closer to her due to her ailing health.
And I told him it was good he was back
because we were planning on visiting my
father so we could swing by and see him
as well. And for the first time, John
actually sounded strained and evasive.
It didn't sound like himself at all. He
told me that he really hadn't been
expecting to move back, so he was having
trouble getting settled in. And for this
reason, he said that he would not be
able to meet with us this soon. We would
have to meet the following month. And
that struck me as strange since his
mother's house was the house he grew up
in. He had his own bedroom there, so why
would it be so difficult to settle in? I
accepted his wishes, though, and told
him that the following month we would
plan on hanging out for sure. Nothing
could have prepared me and my husband
for what happened next, though. As the
month we were supposed to meet
approached, my husband called me to come
downstairs and look at the TV, he then
said to hurry, and I thought he was just
being dramatic since he sometimes did so
to get me to go see what he was
watching. So, I reluctantly went
downstairs.
I immediately noticed that he was white
as a sheet.
Now, he had my attention, and I asked
him what in the world was wrong. Now, he
told me to look at this as he holds the
remote in his hand, pointing it to the
TV, and I sat down next to him, and he
starts playing a news segment that was
showing a courtroom.
Suddenly, John is led in by a baiff
wearing an orange suit with his hands
and feet shackled. And I literally did a
double take as I couldn't believe that
it was the same person. I thought my
husband was joking and was playing a
video showing John or a lookalike like
John, but there was no denying it was
truly him. His full name was right there
on the screen. The newscaster said that
yet another man, John, has just been
arrested in connection with one of the
largest child trafficking rings that has
been dismantled in recent history.
John was just one of the many
individuals who had been caught when the
police successfully obtained their
information from a website on the dark
web that had been shut down for
featuring and spreading CSAM or child
exploitation material.
The investigation had been going on for
a few years. Both of our mouths were
wide open as we stared at the TV in
disbelief.
My husband told me that he had been
searching for a local TV show when he
came across this. He told me he just
couldn't believe it. He must have
watched it over 20 times before he
called me downstairs to see for myself
and I was speechless.
Sometime later, when the initial shock
subsided, my husband went online to
search more information, and it appears
that John's mother's home and his
sister's home had both been raided, and
they found hundreds of child
exploitation content on his computer.
John must have been collecting them
since his youth. There also had been a
DNA match. There wasn't much more
information than that, and I was
thankful for it, as neither of us wanted
to know what exactly that meant.
John is going to be going to prison for
the next 30 plus years, and he'll be an
old man by the time he makes it to his
first parole hearing and would have to
wear an ankle monitor for the remaining
years, if he was ever to actually be
released. And we saw that his sister
removed his name from the house that she
had bought. She also removed all mention
of him from her social media. And for
his family to have disowned him, the
details of what Jon did must be truly
horrific. And it's obvious his family
has no doubt of his guilt. I feel so
sorry for his poor mother. She was such
a sweet lady. She had already lost two
sons and now she lost a third. My
husband and I removed John from our
contact list and any trace of him from
our social media as well. We severed all
ties. We decided to not even contact his
family and we will not be visiting him
in prison either, though we have so many
unanswered questions.
This event broke my husband somehow. He
has become very paranoid and distrustful
of other people, and he's refused to
make any new friends. I can understand
him, though. It's life-changing when you
realize that you never truly know
anyone, regardless of how close you are
to them. Not really, anyway. The sweet,
humble guy that had slept in our home
and shared so many great times with us
had been an illusion, a very good magic
trick. It's as if he hadn't ever existed
except in our own minds. John had been
hiding something after all, and he had
been hiding that he was really a
monster.
[Music]
Many, many years ago, I decided to take
a road trip from Florida to New Mexico
to visit my adopted aunt, Linda. She's
my adopted aunt because, well, I didn't
have much family growing up. And since
she was decades years older than me and
treated me like family, I just started
calling her my aunt one day and it kind
of stuck. We first met when we were
living in Clear Water, but she developed
respiratory problems as she got older
and moved to live with an old friend of
hers in the drier climates near
Albuquerque.
We had a sort of tradition of having a
fancy day from time to time where we'd
really treat ourselves, go shopping,
then go eat somewhere incredibly fancy
as like a sort of big morale booster.
And when we first met, I wasn't doing so
great. I was young and fresh out of a
relationship. And part of being my
shoulder to cry on was taking our very
first fancy day, which fast became a
tradition. And so to save enough money
as possible on that trip so I could
spend as much money as I wanted while I
was in Albuquerque, I started looking
for cheaper hotels and motel outside of
Shreveport city limits, which is where I
usually spent the night after around 12
to 13 hours of driving.
I found what I thought was a cute little
guest house called the Hotel Deville.
And at 20 bucks a night, it was
considerably cheaper than most of the
other options in downtown Shrevesport.
And it looked considerably nicer, too. I
called in advance to make sure that they
were okay with late check-ins. And I
mean late late, too, cuz I sometimes
didn't make it to Shrevesport until late
at night or very early in the morning.
But then once they confirmed that they
could handle that, I booked a room and
was excited to see what the place was
like in person. If it was as nice as it
looked, then I'd probably be a returning
guest around two or three times a year.
But as it turned out, I'll never be
going back to the Hotel Deville for as
long as I live.
And so, like I said, I didn't get to
Shreveport until late at night. But just
as they said I'd be able to, I checked
in with the late night desk clerk and
was given my room key. The place seemed
really nice, but when I asked how many
guests they had checked in, the desk
clerk said that I had the place to
myself.
I thought that was kind of odd because
nice hotels like that are very rarely
empty. But having the place to myself
felt kind of luxurious or maybe more
like peaceful. And so instead of
overanalyzing the situation, I just went
to my room and got ready to take a
shower. I didn't unpack right away. I
just grabbed what I needed for my
shower, which included a toothbrush I
hadn't taken out of the wrapper yet. I
unwrapped it, opened up the little mini
trash can to throw the wrapper away, but
noticed that there was no trash bag in
there. You know, like the little white
kind that goes in the smaller cans like
that. I thought about heading back to
the check-in desk to ask the night clerk
for one, but then I remembered that I
had a little one of my own from CVS that
I picked up my travel toiletries in, so
I decided to use that one instead. I
opened up the trash can and found it was
one of those where you have to sort of
slide out the plastic liner before
putting a new trash bag in. So, that's
what I did. But then I slid out the
little black liner. I saw someone had
scratched a single word into the
plastic.
Trafico.
Now, from having told this story so many
times now, some of you are probably
going to be yelling at your phones or
computers or TVs or whatever. Something
like, "How could you not know what that
means?" Well, although I don't speak
Spanish, I kind of do know what that
means. It's just that what you're
probably thinking right now didn't occur
to me at the time at all. I was so tired
from driving for so long that I honestly
just thought, "What a weird place to tag
something like that."
Like, of all the places to scratch your
name or probably a nickname by the looks
of things, why do it there, where most
likely only the hotel's housekeeping
would see it? I shrugged it off, put the
trash can back together with a bag in
it, and then threw away the wrapping and
box for my new toothbrush and
toothpaste. I then took a shower, walked
back into my room, towed off, and then
started looking around for where the
room's hair dryer was kept. And since
from experience, that's usually the
deepest drawer or cabinet in the desk or
bedside table, that's where I went
first. I checked the little cabinet in
the bedside table first, and bingo,
there was the hair dryer. But after I
took it out, I saw that there was a
little piece of paper underneath it.
Now, my first thought was something
like, "This better not be a piece of
paper that says not working or all that
because I was very much looking forward
to actually drying my hair. It's kind of
relaxing and soothing." But when I took
it out and unfolded it, I saw that all
it said was, "Help me."
And the second I laid my eyes on those
words, my heart kind of skipped a beat.
I checked the back of the paper, but
there was nothing. That's all it said.
Help me.
I looked around the room again, my eyes
darting to every corner as this sudden
feeling that something was badly wrong
took hold of me. I was irrationally
terrified that someone was in the room
with me. But it was just me alone with
this creepy silence in the air. I didn't
know what else to do. I wasn't sure if
just a note was enough to call the cops
over. So, I took it down to the front
desk to ask the clerk what he thought we
should do about this. And the guy was
still there sitting at the desk reading
a magazine and looking like he'd rather
be at home in bed. I explained the
situation, told him maybe someone had
been scared or in fear for their life in
that room that I was in. But after
realizing all I had was a handwritten
note, he just sort of dismissed the
thing as sort of a little prank.
I asked him how he could be so sure that
it was nothing to be alarmed over. And
he responded by asking if there was
anything broken or any blood or anything
like that. There wasn't. There was only
the note. And then when I made that
clear, he said what I'd been thinking,
but it wasn't enough to call the cops
over. So unless I wanted to check out or
move rooms, there wasn't much else that
he could do for me.
I walked back to my room and just sort
of sat there for maybe 10 to 15 minutes
and then repacked my stuff and actually
checked out. I literally felt like I was
about to be the star of my own horror
movie. I've listened to enough of your
podcasts to know what happens next. Like
I was about to get the dumb female
supporting actress whose sheer ignorance
and naivity gets her chopped to pieces
in the opening 10 minutes. I'm not
saying the clerk was in on it and it was
some kind of murder hotel like that HH
Holmes freak that DiCaprio is set to
play in that new movie. I just grabbed
my bag and hurried out to my car and
then drove until I found a quiet spot by
the side of the road away from any
buildings, just trees and darkness. And
I parked and locked the doors. And
ironically, I felt way safer out there
in my small car than that sort of eerie
hotel room.
I know I could have drove back into
Shreport to maybe find some place there,
but I was just so tired and couldn't
face the disappointment of going through
the whole ordeal just to pay a bunch for
a crappy hotel room. I tried to sleep,
but even with how exhausted I was, it
took me way longer than it should have.
I couldn't stop thinking about that note
and I settled on the thought of sort of
I really hoped it was a prank because
the idea of thinking someone had left
that note there genuinely and I found it
out way too late. It just made me sick
to my stomach with the attitude the
clerk took of just oh well it was
probably just a prank. It's no wonder
you hear all these horror stories about
women getting kidnapped and trafficked
in those kind of places. Oh yeah, and
back to that Trafico thing. So, when
things finally went down on what that
word really meant, I actually called the
hotel to tell them how I thought both
the note and scratched Trafico word
might be connected.
It wasn't the same clerk that was on
duty the night that I checked in, but I
told them what room number I was staying
in and where exactly the word had been
scratched. And the nice lady told me to
wait a minute while she went to check
the room and then came back a minute or
so later to tell me that I must be
mistaken.
I said, "No, I think you're mistaken,
ma'am." And then told her a second time
exactly where the scratched word was.
She told me that she had the exact trash
can I was talking about on the desk in
front of her. It hadn't even been
emptied yet and still had my toothbrush
wrapper in it.
She pulled out the plastic insert I was
talking about. But according to her,
there was nothing on it, and that's when
I realized
either she was lying to me or the clerk
on duty that night had swapped it out as
soon as I'd walked out of the building.
And whichever it was, I wasn't getting
anywhere with that lady. So, I just
thanked her for her time and hung up and
just kept on driving towards
Albuquerque.
I told my aunt Linda all about it when I
finally got to her and she took all that
confusion and fear away with five little
words. You did the right thing. Even if
it was just some dumb prank, I did the
right thing in alerting the clerk and
then getting out of there when I didn't
feel safe anymore. And then for all I
knew, the person who wrote that note did
so a long time before I found it, in
which case their situation could have
quite easily resolved itself.
Linda helped me rationalize it, squar it
away in my head. And then after that, I
started to feel a little better. And I'm
not saying I'm haunted by what happened
because like I said, I don't know for
certain what I found that night. But
even today, I still wonder if I came
across something very, very dark. And I
only just touched the surface of what's
going on at that hotel.
[Music]
I was almost killed by my ex-boyfriend.
I'll be changing the names to protect
myself. Now, I'll start with a quick
backstory. At the time of the attack, I
was 19, almost 20. My ex, Gavin, was 27,
and we had a big chow chow and a cat.
The dog was his and the cat was mine. We
lived in a three-bedroom house. A few
months before, we had allowed a friend
to stay with us, Lacy, and it didn't end
well as she was just sort of taking
advantage of us. The week leading up to
the attack, Gavin had just gotten back
from his work trip, which I believe was
about 3 to 4 weeks away from home. And
the week that he was back, he was
completely out of it, unable to complete
a thought.
I'd ask or tell him something and less
than 5 minutes later he'd completely
forget or just not have heard me. Just
off in some other world almost.
Then one day I was very frustrated with
all of this and I'd ask for help with
chores or for him to take the garbage
out only to be ignored. One day he said
that if it continued he wanted me to
slap him. Now, we had gone out for
dinner with his mom 2 days prior to this
attack, and she was obviously very
worried about him, as there was clearly
something wrong. And at the time, the
only mental disorder that he had or was
aware of was OCD, though, I am now even
more convinced that it's not what he had
by any means. In the day of the attack,
we had just gotten back from grabbing
some takeout and were sitting on the
couch in the living room. I had been
painting my nails while he was playing
Mario Kart and he looked over at me and
said, "Lacy put a curse on my family." I
was dealing with my own really poor
mental health at the time, so I wasn't
really in a space where I can be
focusing on his. I have BPD, and I
wasn't sure what to do. So, I suggested
that he hop in a cold shower as it had
helped him earlier in the week to reset
a bit. He walked into the bathroom
muttering to himself and it just felt so
off. Now, I don't know how to describe
it. I just didn't feel safe. And I
walked over and asked if I could call
his mom for a bit, maybe invite her over
for supper, kind of beating around the
bush that I wanted her to come help him.
He looked at me and just started yelling
that all he needed was me. I walked out
and started toward the living room as I
was calling his mom. He came out of the
bathroom naked and started yelling at
Olly, the dog, to discipline me and
attack me. Mind you, he was trained as
my guard dog. And at this point, I
believe his mom had answered the phone
and heard what was happening. He started
calling me Lacy and saying that I needed
to pay for what I did. I immediately ran
into the bedroom with my phone and his
mom was still on the line.
He kicked down the door, smashed my head
into our mirrored closet doors, and
threw my phone to the ground. He was
screaming that he was going to kill me.
I scrambled out of the bedroom trying to
get to the front door. And as I was
passing the kitchen, he got a hold of me
and wrapped his arms around my throat
again, saying that he was going to kill
me.
I remember looking over to the table and
seeing my cat, Sterling, all puffed up.
And I had never seen him so scared.
I was fighting to not go unconscious and
I couldn't breathe. I clawed at him just
trying to get his arms off my throat. I
remember starting to see black specks in
my vision and thinking, "Am I going to
die? What is he going to do with my
body?"
Then he started asking me if I knew what
it was like to have unspeakable things
done to me. And this is the part where
I'm not sure if he was actually out of
his mind. I have been assaulted
inappropriately before and it had been a
year that month I guess and I was very
open about how that had been affecting
me and open about telling him. He threw
me to the ground and put his foot over
my head as if to stomp on it and this
was the only time that I had seen his
eyes throughout this attack and they
were almost lifeless. His pupils were so
dilated you could barely see the iris
and he was yelling over and over again.
Admit it, Lacy. You know what you did.
Admit it. I just started apologizing,
doing and saying anything I could to
make him happy. And this seemed to work
as I got the opportunity to scramble to
my feet and race out the door. And I
just wish that I'd left the screen door
open.
I ran from house to house in nothing but
shorts and a sweater in February in one
of the coldest provinces in Canada. I
got into maybe two to three houses
before I heard Olly screaming. And it's
a sound I can never get out of my head.
I just dropped to the ground screaming
and crying. Gavin, leave him alone as I
knew in that moment that he killed my
dog.
At this point, a bunch of the neighbors
had heard me and came running to help.
An older couple called the police and
brought me into their home, not knowing
if they were putting their own lives at
risk. My parents were living in a
completely different province.
Someone gave me their phone to call my
mom and she was out for supper with some
friends and I just told her Gavin killed
the dog and tried to kill me. The police
finally showed up after what seemed like
hours. Five or six cars, firearms out
and ready. They used a megaphone to tell
him to come out with his hands up and he
walked out naked, covered in blood.
Once they had gotten him into the car, a
police officer came to talk to me while
the others searched the house. And
shortly after an officer came up and
asked how many dogs we had and I told
him one and a cat. I asked if Olly was
still alive and they told me that he was
dead in the bathtub. Gavin had killed
him in the living room and then brought
him into the bathroom, filled up the tub
and put Ollie's body in it. I asked
about the cat and they said they
couldn't find him yet. And I was sure
that he had killed my sweet boy too.
Sterling was the only thing I could
think about and I went into a panic and
was no longer able to give them any more
information. I was in tunnel vision
repeating, "Where's my cat? I want my
cat. Find my cat."
The officers asked if there were any
treats that they could use to coax him
out and where his hiding spots usually
were. And they ended up finding Sterling
alive, but he was so scared and
attacking the officers.
They had blocked off the worst of the
scene, so they had me go in to get him.
There was still so much blood. The smell
of blood and feces was overpowering.
Sterling was in the bedroom on the bed
just crying. I scooped him up and asked
the officers to find my vape. And as I
was walking out of the house, Gavin's
mom had just gotten out of her car. She
asked me where Olly was, and all I could
say was, "Gavin killed him." and she
just dropped to the ground and started
balling.
Two weeks later, Sterling and I were on
a plane to my mom's. The court case took
over 2 years and I later found out Gavin
had loaded our guns. And I never wanted
to know how he killed Olly. But when
going through the evidence, an officer
mentioned a baseball bat, not knowing
that I didn't want to know. He only got
10 months of house arrest for all of
this. And to this day, 2 years later, he
still tries to contact me, blaming me
for not getting him help earlier. And I
think the worst part is is that I do
partly blame myself.
[Music]
Nestled along the banks of the Teddong
River, the North Korea capital of
Pyongyang is perhaps one of the most
unsettling and enigmatic places on
Earth. Befitting its moniker, the hermit
kingdom grants entry to only a limited
number of curious tourists each year,
and those welcomed are subjected to
incredibly strict regulations.
Visitors must always be accompanied by a
guide and are only permitted to visit a
handful of carefully selected and
delicately curated locations.
Then, as for their accommodation,
visitors are usually checked into one of
the only hotels in the entirety of North
Korea that permits foreign guests, a
stark beige monolith known as the Young
Gakto International Hotel.
At 400 m wide and deep enough for the
passage of large ships, the Taong River
is one of the largest in North Korea and
boasts a great number of larger and
smaller islands.
One of these islands known as Yangak is
located almost smack bang in the middle
of Pyongyang and is home to the aonomous
International Hotel.
Constructed in the late 80s on the
island's far northern tip and opened in
1995, the 47story hotel essentially
serves as a containment compound for
North Korea's foreign visitors, and
guests are only permitted to check in
following a thoroughly extensive
background check. Upon entering the Yang
Gakdo Hotel, guests are greeted by high
ceilings, marble floors, and dark
leather seating. touches of rare
opulence in a country like North Korea.
But plastering the lobby's walls are
garish reminders of both time and place.
Vast handpainted murals depict heroic
larger than-l life figures engaged in
key moments of North Korean history,
such as the nation's founding or their
supposed victory in the Korean War.
Others show scenes of joyful workers,
farmers, or soldiers, all embodying the
spirit of self-sufficiency and loyalty
to the state. In each image, everyone is
smiling. Everyone is joyful, but they
are mass which hide a terrifying but
wholly unspeakable truth.
Upstairs, rooms are decorated in very
neutral shades of beige, cream, and
light green. The furniture is
functional. The bathrooms spartan but
clean, yet the hotel's more public
spaces are anything but ordinary.
At the top of the hotel sits a slowly
revolving restaurant, offering diners a
360 view of Pyongyang while enjoying a
blend of Korean and Western cuisine.
While the hotel's casino attempts to add
a touch of Vegas to proceedings with red
carpets, gold fixtures, and the tinkle
of slot machines for ambiance. The
hotel's basement hosts a gift merchant,
a one-stop shop for all your propaganda
needs, where things like books, badges,
and posters are available to purchase.
However, there is another area of the
hotel that is strictly forbidden to its
guests and have thus become a subject of
deep curiosity to both visitors and
observers alike.
The hotel staff refer to it as the
communication and rebroadcasting floor,
but guests simply refer to the place as
the fifth floor. Many believe the fifth
floor serves a dual purpose within the
hotel. The first is to monitor the
movements and communications of the
hotel's guests. The second is to ensure
the compliance and loyalty of the hotel
staff. Unlike the rest of the hotel, the
fifth floor is said to be decorated in
the style of a North Korean military
installation with endless grays and
aggressive propaganda replacing the soft
colors and warm welcomes of the wider
hotel. Yet, the fact remains that no one
actually knows for certain what occurs
there. Seldom has North Korea permitted
Western photographers onto the fifth
floor, and their explanation of the
floor's purpose has been vague at best.
Many know better than to go snooping
around restricted areas in a country
suffering a brutal dictatorship.
But the same could not be said for one
particular visitor to the Young Gakto
International who through either valor
or vacuousness decided to find out for
himself.
Born on December 12th of 1994 in
Cincinnati, Ohio, Otto Frederick Warbeer
grew up to be an intelligent and
gregarious young man. Upon graduating
high school, he studied commerce and
economics at the University of Virginia
and spent a year at the London School of
Economics as part of an exchange
program. It seems his visit to the
United Kingdom sparked a deep wanderlust
in young Otto. And over the years that
followed, he traveled to Cuba, Ecuador,
and a host of other European countries.
By the summer of 2015, Otto had turned
to sites on East Asia, and after some
searching, secured a free trip to Hong
Kong via another study abroad program
set to commence in January the following
year. But while researching his exciting
new adventure, Otto came across a group
known as Young Pioneer Tours. Run by two
Western men and operating out of the
Chinese city close to the North Korean
border, Young Pioneer Tours advertise
trips to destinations your mother would
rather you stay away from, including the
isolated and insular nation of North
Korea. The tour group claimed to operate
in close conjunction with North Korean
authorities and that all visitors,
including United States citizens, could
be guaranteed their safety if they
obeyed the rather expansive list of
rules and regulations.
Otto became captivated by the idea of
visiting the capital of the so-called
hermit kingdom and told his father he
wanted to experience the North Korean
culture and people for himself.
He checked his schedule, realized he
could attend a 5-day New Year's tour
before departing for Hong Kong, then
flew out to Beijing on December 29th,
2015.
Upon his arrival in Beijing, Otto met
with other members of his North Korean
tour group, which to his surprise
included 10 other US citizens.
Then after presenting Chinese
authorities with special permits, they
boarded a flight to Pyongyang and
touched down in the early hours of New
Year's Eve. After disembarking the
plane, the tour group was immediately
separated from their fellow passengers.
They were then driven directly to the
Yang Gakto International Hotel where
they checked in and were given some
breakfast.
After that, Otto and his fellow tourists
were taken to Pyongyangs Kim Ilsung
Square, which features galleries,
museums, and a national library known as
the Grand People's Study House.
The square is cleverly designed to
create an optical illusion whereby the
center of the square stands lower than
the nearby riverbank. This creates the
impression that the 170 m high Jet
Tower, which stands on the opposite side
of the Tong River, is sprouting from the
end of the square when in reality its
foundations lie much further away.
Otto's North Korean guides were keen to
showcase such architectural feats. Then,
after a short stop at the Austrianstyle
coffee shop attached to the Korean
Central History Museum, they returned to
the Yang Gakdo Hotel.
Following their evening meal, Otto and
his fellow guests were invited to
partake in alcoholic beverages at the
hotel bar. They were also invited to
enjoy the annual New Year's Eve
fireworks display taking place at
midnight over the waters of the Taong
River. But aside from that, they were
not permitted to leave the hotel
premises for any reason whatsoever.
Scouser Danny Graten, a member of the
tour group from Liverpool in the United
Kingdom, told journalists that he, Otto,
and a handful of other tourists spent
the evening getting drunk in the hotel
bar. They watched the fireworks around
midnight, ordered a few more drinks from
the rather tur North Korean bartender,
and then retired to their rooms at
around 1:30 in the morning. Danny Graten
remembered Otto being quite intoxicated,
but otherwise in control of himself.
What happened next suggests otherwise.
Otto was known to thoroughly research
his prospective travel destinations, and
he'd no doubt done a lot of prior
reading to the Young Gakto Hotel.
Since visitors are explicitly warned to
stay away from the hotel's communication
and rebroadcasting floor, many returned
home with eerie stories regarding the
mysterious fifth floor. Otto had almost
certainly heard of such stories and
likely harbored his own personal
curiosities.
He also no doubt observed how quiet the
hotel was in the wee small hours of the
morning. So whether out of bold
inebriation or some other unknown
inclination, Otto crept out of his hotel
room, walked down to the elevator, and
hit the bright red call button labeled
five. When the elevator door opened in
front of him, Otto Warbeer found himself
on the legendary fifth floor of the
Young Gakto International Hotel. And all
the stories were true. The color scheme
was metallic. The hallways seemed
endless, and the garish propaganda
posters which lined the walls were
unlike any his guides had permitted him
to see. One image showed a North Korean
tank crushing American and South Korean
soldiers under its treads. Another
depicted North Korean soldiers with
bayonets, advancing on a scene where an
American soldier threatens a mother and
a child. The American is depicted in a
grotesque, monstrous form as he lunges
at the terrified mother while the
handsome and heroic North Koreans rush
to save her. Other posters depicted the
US capital building and the moments
before being struck by a North Korean
nuclear warhead. "The US will be crushed
first if they invade us," the caption
read. Otto was no doubt exhilarated to
have snuck onto the fifth floor. And
after perusing the hallways for a few
minutes, he decided to head back to his
room for the night,
but not without grabbing himself a
little souvenir in the form of a North
Korean propaganda poster.
It's unclear which poster he took, and
frankly, no one is 100% certain if he
even stole one or not. But 2 days later,
as Otto arrived at Pyongyang
International Airport to await his
flight back to China, he was arrested by
North Korean officials.
Danny Graten, the liver pudlan on the
tour, later issued a statement to the
Western press. No words were spoken,
Graten said. Two guards came over and
simply tapped Otto on the shoulder and
led him away. I just said kind of quite
nervously, "Well, that's the last we'll
see of you.
There's a great irony in those words
because that was the last physical time
I saw Otto ever. He didn't resist. He
didn't look scared. He sort of half
smiled. Then off they went.
As the decidedly nervous tour group
boarded their plane, Graten hoped Otto
would suddenly walk through the hatch, a
relieved smile on his face. But the only
other person who did was a North Korean
police officer.
Otto Warmbeer is very sick, he said, and
has been taken to the hospital.
A representative from Young Pioneer
Tours attempted to talk to the officer,
but was informed any further
communications would have to be
conducted via official channels.
North Korean air traffic control and
ordered the plane to depart, and having
little choice in the matter, the pilot
opted to obey their commands. Auto
Warbeer had been left behind.
In the days that followed, the country's
state-run Korean Central News Agency
announced that Otto had been detained
for a hostile act against the state.
They refused to provide any further
details for weeks on end. But during
this period, a young Pioneer
spokesperson told Otto's parents as well
as the Reuters news agency that there
had been an incident at the Young Gakto
Hotel. And to their knowledge, Otto had
obeyed every rule and regulation put to
him. But since their relationship with
the North Koreans had suddenly soured,
they were unwilling to provide any
further information on his arrest or
detention.
Otto's parents had to wait a full 6
weeks before they got any answers, at
which point they came from the lips of
their own son.
On February 29th of 2016, the North
Koreans held a press conference in which
Otto was paraded before their state
media.
Reading from a prepared statement, Otto
confessed to the attempted theft of a
propaganda poster from a restricted area
of the second floor with the changing of
the fifth to second floor being a way of
deterring future thefts. The poster,
which supposedly said, "Let's arm
ourselves strongly with Kim Jong-'s
patriotism," was intended as a harmless
souvenir, but in the eyes of the North
Korean judiciary, its attempted theft
represented a serious crime.
Otto also went on to state that the
attempted theft had been committed on
behalf of a Methodist church in his
hometown as well as a secret fraternity
at the University of Virginia known as Z
Society.
However, both groups denied any
association with Otto with Time magazine
later calling the accusations fancible
and implausible.
Many believe the confession to have been
coerced in some way, as not only did one
observer remark that Otto was clearly
under duress, but countless other former
prisoners have detailed horrific torture
sessions in which they were forced to
issue false and damning statements
against themselves.
On March 16th, a US envoy met with two
North Korean officials to negotiate
Otto's release. His attempts were
unsuccessful and just hours later, Otto
was convicted in North Korea's Supreme
Court on charges of subverting article
60 of North Korea's criminal code. His
trial, which lasted just 1 hour,
included evidence such as CCTV footage,
fingerprint evidence, witness testimony,
and Otto's own coerced confession.
The CCTV footage showed a man identified
as Warm Beer by his North Korean guide
entering the staffonly area. This was
followed by the release of a brief
lowresolution video timestamped at 1:57
a.m. showing a figure removing a poster
from a wall and placing it on the floor.
A hotel staff member told the court,
"When I got off work, there was nothing
a miss, but when I returned, I thought
someone had deliberately taken the
slogan down, so I mobilized security to
prevent damage to it and reported it to
the authorities."
In his confession, Otto claimed that he
had abandoned the poster after
discovering it was too large to carry
away. I never never should allowed
myself to be lured by the United States
administration into committing a crime
in this country, he said in a statement
quite clearly written by North Korean
spin doctors.
I wish that the United States
administration never manipulated people
like myself in the future to commit
crimes against foreign countries. I
entirely beg you, the people in
government of the DPRK, for your
forgiveness, please. I made the worst
mistake of my life.
His pleas fell on deaf ears. The court
held that he had committed a crime and I
quote, "pursuant to the United States
government's hostile policy toward North
Korea in a bid to impair the unity of
its people after entering it as a
tourist." He was then sentenced to 15
years of hard labor in a North Korean
prison camp. Human Rights Watch labeled
the hearing a kangaroo court while
describing the sentence Otto was given
as outrageous and shocking. And despite
North Korea's claims to the contrary, US
State Department spokesman Mark Toner
stated it was clear that they had
arrested an American citizen purely for
political purposes.
Otto's parents, Fred and Cindy, met with
numerous Obama administration officials,
including then Secretary of State John
Kerry, but North Korean diplomats proved
prickly at best.
It wasn't until June of 2017 that
negotiations bore fruit when Secretary
of State Rex Tillerson announced that
North Korea had released Otto following
a full pardon for his crimes against the
state. However, during a June 6th
meeting with North Korean officials, a
representative of the US State
Department was informed that Otto had
contracted food born botulism shortly
after his sentencing and had fallen into
a coma after taking a sleeping pill. US
officials asked North Korea exactly how
long Otto had been in a coma, and the
answer they got was as shocking as it
was horrifying.
15 months, they were told. On June 13th,
Otto arrived at the University of
Cincinnati Medical Center, where medical
staff tried to determine what caused his
coma and if there was signs of recovery.
Doctors soon determined that Otto was in
a state of unresponsive wakefulness,
more commonly known as a persistent
vegetative state. He was able to breathe
on his own and blink his eyes, but
otherwise showed no signs of being aware
of his environment. The medical director
of the team, which transported warm beer
back to the United States, stated there
was every indication that Otto had
adequate medical care during his
detention. However, the release of two
scans showed extensive damage to his
brain, which doctors believed was
consistent with a cardopulmonary event
that caused the brain to be deprived of
oxygen.
It wasn't exactly clear what had caused
such oxygen deprivation. There was no
evidence of botulism, nor was there any
evidence of torture or abuse, and scans
of Otto's neck and skull were normal
outside of the already identified brain
injuries. In fact, as one doctor phrased
it, for somebody who had been bedridden
for more than a year, his skin and body
were in excellent condition.
Otto's father held a press conference on
June 15th, but declined to answer
questions pertaining to his son's
injuries. However, he did state that not
only was he furious with the North
Koreans, but he didn't believe a word
they told him. There was no excuse for
any civilized nation to have kept his
condition secret and to have denied him
top-notch medical care for so long, he
said. Sadly, following a week of
discussion with expert medical
officials, Otto's parents made the
decision to have his feeding tube
removed and he passed away at 2:20 p.m.
on June 19th of 2017.
He was just 22 years old. Otto's parents
released a public statement thanking the
hospital staff for all their hard work
while President Donald Trump at the time
condemned the brutality of the North
Korean regime.
North Korea, on the other hand, claimed
they were the situation's biggest
victim, accusing the United States of a
smear campaign while stating their
treatment of Otto was humanitarian.
A spokesperson for the communist nation
said, "Although we had no reason at all
to show mercy to such a criminal of the
enemy state, we provided him with
medical treatments and care with all
sincerity on humanitarian basis until
his return to the United States.
Considering that his health got worse
at the request of Warbeer's family, no
autopsy was performed and only an
external examination was conducted.
Medical examiners came up with a variety
of theories for what caused Otto's
oxygen starvation, including blood
clots, pneumonia, sepsis, or kidney
failure. They also said it was plausible
that sleeping pills could have caused
warm beer to stop breathing if he had
botulism and was paralyzed from it.
University of Cincinnati doctors found
no evidence of bachelism. Yet several
experienced neurologists asserted that
given the length of time before Otto's
return to the United States, botulism
could not be altogether ruled out. The
US coroner who examined Warbeer's body
after his death said that Warbeer's body
showed no obvious signs of torture. But
the word obvious is doing a lot of heavy
lifting in that sentence. Otto could
have easily been subjected to advanced
forms of water torture. In fact, some
have theorized that being waterboarded
too heavily was the exact cause of
Otto's oxygen starvation.
Many who asserted that Otto had been
tortured in direct contravention of the
coroner's reports were ridiculed by
those who failed to take such methods of
torture into account.
But in 2019, a Korean-American
businessman detained at the same time as
Otto claimed he'd seen a young western
man, almost fainting and being dragged
across a hallway by investigators with
his head and face soaked with water. The
sighting might have taken place just
moments before Otto fell unconscious,
never to wake up again. Otto's funeral
was held on June 22nd of 2017 at his
former school, Wyoming High. More than
2500 people showed up to say goodbye.
He was then buried at Oakhill Cemetery
in Glendale, Ohio, where students tied
ribbons on every tree and pole along the
funeral procession's 3 mi route all the
way from the high school to the nearby
cemetery.
A week later, the United States
government announced that it would ban
American tourists from visiting North
Korea with Warbeer's detention and death
being cited as a contributing factor.
In 2022, Otto's parents announced the
creation of the Otto Wararmbeer
Scholarship Fund with his first
recipient being North Korean defector
Sai Lee.
Around the same time, Saiang Lee gave a
talk at TED X UCLA entitled Our Bubbles
of Certainty, a perspective from my life
in North Korea. It's a very poignant
talk and one highly recommended to those
who wish to know more about the
Orwellian horrors of the hermit kingdom.
Michael Kirby, chairman of the United
Nations Commission of Inquiry on Human
Rights in North Korea, once wrote that
Otto's fate has become a metaphor, a
kind of symbol of a big story about
thousands of nameless statistics locked
up and oppressed in North Korea. They
are voiceless, but Otto Wararmbe speaks
of their suffering from his grave.
[Music]
This happened to me in Tempe, Arizona,
not far from Mill Avenue, where all the
bars are at. I was out bar hopping with
a group of friends one weekend, having a
good time, and I gotten pretty wasted. I
have this terrible habit of wandering
off and getting lost when I drink. And
this particular night, I had managed to
get myself in a very dumb situation.
After wandering down streets for almost
an hour, I started to realize that I was
very lost. And to make things worse, my
phone was out of battery. At some point,
I decided that I would just walk back to
my friend's house, which I knew was
somewhere north of an area that we were
bar hopping. Now, I should mention that
I am severely incompetent when it comes
to directions and navigating in a city.
So, I didn't realize that I was a solid
7 to 8 m away from my friend's place. As
I was stumbling confidently along the
empty roads at 2:00 a.m., a sedan
suddenly pulls off the road in front of
me, aggressively, almost blocking my
path. Somewhat startled, I look towards
the driver's side and see a rather large
and mean-l looking black gentleman
staring me down. In situations like
this, most people have one of two
reactions. They either become scared and
defensive or angry and aggressive. I, on
the other hand, am an insane person who
was just drunk enough to have no sense
of the danger that I might be in. Now, I
should mention that I am your typical
privileged suburban white boy. not
particularly threatening or big. And I
proceeded to wave at the guy saying,
"Hey, man. What's good? I'm not
completely sure, but I think I was
probably smiling, too." I specifically
remember the face that he made. It was
sort of confused and conflicted, as if I
were asking him what year it was. He
paused for a second and asked me
something, but I couldn't understand
what he said. And I responded back,
"Huh?" And he then asked me, "Where you
going? I told him I was trying to walk
to my friend's place, but I have no idea
where I am. After another pause, he told
me to get in. Now, without thinking, I
walked over to the passenger side and
hopped in. Pretty dumb, right? Well, at
the time, it seemed like a good idea.
And once I got in, I was able to get a
better look at the guy. He was covered
in tattoos and was wearing your typical
thug attire. I also noticed his arm was
all bandaged. Oh, and he had a pistol
clearly tucked into his shorts. And
again, for some reason, none of this
phased me at the time. He asked me where
my friend's place was, and I gave him
directions. Now, I'm pretty sociable and
talkative when I drink, so I immediately
started chatting with the guy casually.
I don't remember exactly what we talked
about, but eventually he started telling
me that he had just gotten out of the
hospital after being treated for a
gunshot wound on his arm, and his girl
just broke up with him because of it.
Apparently, she didn't like that he was
in a gang and getting into gunfights. Go
figure. He then told me that he was real
pissed off about her and about getting
shot and he was driving around looking
for someone to rob when he found me and
that he has served time for robbery in
the past.
At that point, my drunken brain started
to connect the dots, and I thought about
the roughly $200 that I had in my wallet
at that very moment. But instead of
freaking out, I just said something
like, "Damn, man, that's rough."
He also told me that he really wanted to
be a rapper and he was trying to get his
music career started. I tried to be
supportive, telling him to just go for
it. And about 10 to 15 minutes later, we
pulled up at my friend's place. Now,
this is when I should have just gotten
out of the car and told the armed man,
"Thanks for the ride." But again, I'm an
insane person and felt like I owed him
one for taking me all the way there. So,
I asked if he wanted to come in and
smoke some, and he said he was down. At
this point, my friends had already been
back for a while and were all wondering
what had happened to me. And as you
might expect, they were awfully
surprised when I showed up with a
strange black guy who I now knew was a
gang member who had debated robbing me
at gunpoint. What the dude did next sort
of sketched everyone out, though. My
buddy lives in a house with a few other
people. His room is at the very end of
the hallway, and that's where they all
were listening to music. He also has a
huge safe in his closet that is visible
as soon as you walk in the room. I
didn't realize it, but my new friend had
brought his gun inside with him. And
shortly after entering the room, after
everyone said, "What's up, he took his
gun out of his waistband and put it down
right on top of the safe in front of
everyone."
It seemed like a really odd thing to do,
but it was a lot better than what he
could have done. I feel like it was a
sort of show of respect, like he wanted
to show that he wasn't going to use it.
Luckily, I do have super chill friends,
so they acted cool and were about to
roll up a blunt. So, a few minutes
later, we all went back to smoke,
leaving that gun in his room. The dude
chilled with us for a while longer and
actually seemed to get along with some
of my friends who had a similar interest
in music. He then picked up his gun off
the safe and left without incident.
Looking back, I realized that that could
have gone much, much worse, especially
since my buddy had a lot of cash in that
safe and could have easily robbed us at
gunpoint at any time. And I like to
think that although he was a criminal
and a gang member, he was also just a
guy going through a hard time. And a
little kindness and marijuana prevented
that night from going very, very bad.
[Music]
Hi, let's read. My name is Desh and I
was born in Sri Lanka, but I've been
living and working in Mumbai, India for
the last 20 years. My daughter came
across your YouTube channel around
Halloween of last year. And at first, I
wasn't sure if she should be watching
such scary stories.
But since she started watching, her
colloquial English has improved a lot.
and I'm happy to say that you're having
something of a positive influence in her
life. There's also another, albeit a
little bit of an unusual reason why I'm
happy she's watching your channel, and
that's the fact that you take viewer
submissions. She's 14 years old now, and
although we have a fairly good
relationship, there have been times when
we've gone through some strain. Now, for
example, when she was 12, she got into a
habit of slamming her bedroom door
whenever she was angry with school or
her friends or what have you. Every time
she did, which wasn't very many times, I
was absolutely livid, more furious than
she had ever seen me before. She felt
victimized, and I can understand. Her
brother has broken a window with his
cricket ball before, and I didn't get as
angry as I did. And I tried explaining
that it was the sound that bothered me
so much, but she didn't understand and
wouldn't accept my apology, but she
doesn't understand because there's
something she doesn't know. And it
concerns something that happened to me
just a few years before she was born.
Something that resulted in me suffering
from a very prolonged and very acute
post-traumatic stress disorder.
For the life of me, I can't find it in
myself to tell her what had happened to
me. And so instead, I think I might ask
you to do it for me.
I used to be employed as a floor
supervisor at the Taj Mahal Hotel here
in Mumbai and I first got the job in
early 2008 when I was still just the
tender age of 24 years old. I was very
proud of myself to attain such a lofty
position at such a young age because it
came with a lot more prestige and pay
due to the heightened responsibility.
It could be very stressful at times
because my bosses could be very hard on
me. But it meant that I could seriously
consider starting a family as my salary
and lodgings had made me a very eligible
bachelor. Just under a year into working
there, I thought I could see myself
working here for a long time. But then
one night, everything changed.
It was around 9:30 p.m. when it started.
The hotel was bustling with guests and
staff, and we were all very busy, and it
was business as usual. Then suddenly, we
heard what sounded like firecrackers
coming from the lobby downstairs.
But our confusion turned to pure terror
when we realized it wasn't firecrackers.
It was gunfire. And our terror only
intensified as the sounds drew closer.
I was in the lobby when I saw people
running, their faces painted with panic,
and I remember the distinct smell of
gunpowder drifting in the air. I
remember ducking behind the reception
desk. My heart was pounding at a mile a
minute, and over the chaos, I could hear
guests screaming as they tried to make
sense of what was happening.
These terrorists were members of a group
who called themselves Lashkar a Taibah,
who are a Pakistani-based militant
group. And after forcing their way
through the main entrance of the hotel,
they began firing indiscriminately.
They had automatic weapons and their
bullets tore through marble and wood.
And the destruction from just a few
bullets was horrifying. They tore that
hotel apart.
They were part of a group of 10
attackers who arrived in Mumbai via sea.
More almost like a commando operation
than a terrorist one. And then instead
of attacking military, police or
infrastructure, they were gunning only
for the innocent unarmed civilians.
And from my hiding spot, I saw some of
my colleagues on the ground. And I
couldn't tell if they were just taking
cover or if they were hurt. Then I saw
one of the terrorists dressed in black
with a backpack firing at the
chandeliers and laughing as the glass
pieces shattered. And that's when I
realized that they were crazy. maybe
high on drugs or something too because
they were shooting at anything. Perhaps
in frustration because there weren't as
many people as they hoped gathered in
that lobby that evening. I managed to
dial the emergency number and I
whispered our location in the situation
to the dispatcher, begging them to send
help as quickly as possible. And the
next thing I did was the only thing I
could think of to help prevent more
losses of life. and it went back into
the hotel's corridors to help guests
find a way through the staff corridors
and away from the gunfire.
You see, the terrorists were not just
shooting randomly. They were
systematically moving through the hotel,
searching for foreigners.
I could hear them shouting in Erdo,
demanding to know where foreign guests
were staying, particularly British and
Americans. And they were looking for
high-profile targets, tourists, and
anyone who could be considered an enemy.
Myself and a handful of guests hid in
one of the staff only areas trying to
stay silent, listening to the attackers
moving through the hotel. We could hear
their voices whenever they got close to
our hiding place. And it made me tremble
with fear every time they fired a shot.
We began to smell smoke after a while,
too, and realized that they had set
fires because the smell of gasoline or
some type of accelerant, I'm not
certain, was very pungent in some areas.
They seem to be moving from room to room
on the lower floors, breaking into guest
rooms and the restaurant areas and then
setting the place on fire in the hopes
the entire hotel might burn down. I
heard them in the Wasabi by Moramoto.
It's the upscale Japanese restaurant
where they had taken hostages, forcing
guests to the ground and shooting some
if they moved or didn't comply.
But anyone who had a western passport on
their person, they were executed without
any questions.
After a while, we started to hear
explosions.
These terrorists had brought hand
grenades with them, and they were
throwing them down corridors to flush
out anyone hiding. I saw one explode
near the kitchen area where some of my
colleagues had taken refuge, and the
blast was followed by screams and then
silence.
The terrorists then set up positions on
the upper floors, using the vantage
point to shoot at anyone trying to
escape and then shooting at the police
as they began their response.
There were reports of them shooting from
windows at people below or at any
movements outside. And it seemed they
intended to hold the hotel and use it as
a stronghold so the killing could
continue.
At one point, this was perhaps the most
chilling moment for me personally, the
terrorists used the hotel's internal
communication systems or the PA to taunt
and threaten us. They said all Hindus
were allowed to leave the building as
long as they told the terrorists where
any Western guests were hiding. And I
must have shown some kind of silent
reaction on my face or in my eyes
because one of the Western guests
started to beg me in a sort of whisper,
"Please don't leave us." I told her I
would not. And I meant it from the
bottom of my heart. Not just because I
would not be able to live with myself,
but because I knew it was a lie. There
was no way that they would miss the
opportunity to shoot somebody like me,
especially now that the police were
outside shooting back. Leaving my hiding
place meant certain death. So, I stayed
right where I was and prayed for a quick
ending.
Eventually, the sounds of the Indian
security forces engaging the terrorists
reached us. It was a mix of relief and
terror knowing that while help was here,
the situation was far from over. And so,
we just stayed low, praying for it to
end. When the shooting had finally
stopped, we heard men speaking Hindi and
English telling us to come out and that
they were the police. And the relief
that we felt was monumental, a feeling I
will never forget. The once grand tage
was now a mess of bullet holes and blood
and broken glass. I saw some colleagues
that were injured, others I would never
talk to again. The aftermath was a blur
of helping where I could, guiding days
guests to safety and basically anything
I could to delay my own emotional
reaction.
That was my way of dealing with it,
being selfless, completely forgetting
myself. Because when I remembered it
all, when I allowed myself to process
what had happened to me, it was just too
devastating.
And the days that followed were filled
with grief. And every time I tried to
sleep, the nightmares would have me
reliving the whole situation all over
again. And the hotel, like the wider
city, has healed. But the memory of that
night has remained a constant in my life
ever since. And the same is to be said
for all those who have lived through
those attacks.
It was something I lived through and I
have talked about it with others. But I
don't know how to tell my daughter why
her father is the way he is. And so
maybe after this she will understand why
I got so angry when she slammed the
door. It wasn't anger that she was
seeing. It was fear. Because that noise
took me right back to the Taj on what I
thought would be my last night on Earth.
[Music]
Surprisingly, this is one of those
stories I forgot about until a few days
ago when I was talking to a school
friend on call and I got reminded of
this. She was pretty freaked when I told
her. You see, this happened when I was
roughly maybe seven or eight, so some of
the details are a bit fuzzy, but I
remember it pretty vividly. This may
seem like unimportant context, but my
family had just moved to America and
were renting the top portion of your
regular suburban house in a pretty safe
culde-sac.
I had friends, they were triplets, about
three or four houses down, not far at
all. And every day I'd go hang out with
them. And around 9 or 10 in the night,
my older brother, around 11 or 12, I'd
say, would make the 2-minute walk and
come and get me and walk me home since I
was pretty young. One night, he came to
get me as usual. The sun wasn't fully
down, but it was getting pretty dark. We
started down the walk as normal when he
started casting glances over his
shoulder.
I didn't really notice until he shoved
me hard away from the sidewalk and
between two houses. Each house had a
huge fence that separated their
backyard. Not ours, though. And he made
me crouch behind the fence. I remember
being really scared, but more confused
since I had no damn idea what the hell
was going on. More specifically, he was
a pretty big prankster. Once he
convinced me my older sister crashed her
car into the ocean. So I didn't really
believe him when he turned and said,
"Walk behind the houses. I think
someone's following us."
Now looking back now, he was probably
trying to keep me calm. However,
whatever calm was left in my tiny
8-year-old body was gone the moment that
I turned around and looked. The man had
followed us behind the houses and he was
just by the edge of a few houses down
near a different fence line. He had a
black hoodie on with a hood up, black
sweatpants and white sneakers. I had
pretty bad eyesight due to some health
problems, but back then it was crystal
clear and I could see with horrifying
clarity that his jaw was just hanging
open like he was just standing there
with his jaw hung open. It was
horrifying.
I think now that I'm older, maybe he had
some kind of medical condition that
affected his job or maybe he did crack.
I don't know. But back then, I could
have sworn on God that I was seeing some
kind of demon.
Now, anyway, my brother, when he saw
that I was looking and getting ready to
freak out, he told me, "Just run as fast
as I can to our house." And we booked
it. Neither of us looked back, but we
were so scared out of our minds. And
like I said, we only rented the top
portion of the house, so the bottom with
a sliding door in the backyard belonged
to some other tenant. I don't remember
if she was home or not, but I remember
tugging that thing open and locking it
as fast as I can. And when I looked up,
he was there in the yard, a little away
from the door, just staring at us with
that jaw.
Me and my brother told my sister and my
mother immediately. My father was away
for a work trip at the time, but nothing
came of it. Not until the day after.
We went to meet my dad at his warehouse,
which had a small living portion above
it where we lazed around until we was
ready to head home with us. Around dusk,
he came up and told us that we might
have to wait since the police were
there. He walked us around to the back
window of the small area to show us
police officers all around the backyard
area of the warehouses. There were a few
in line and a white van parked on the
grass by the edge of the woods. Like I
said, I was pretty young, so I don't
remember many details of what actually
happened, but I do remember my dad, who
hadn't been told about the day prior,
telling us that they found a man and a
woman in the van. The man, he said, had
his mouth hanging wide open.
He seemed really disturbed while telling
me about the whole thing and wouldn't
answer any more questions about the
woman. Maybe she was dead. I have zero
idea. I do know that they were arrested
on trespassing charges. I don't know
anything else and I haven't asked about
it. I doubt that he'd remember. It's
been over a decade and he's pushing 70.
But it freaks me out to this day. I
still can't believe it happened and I
don't have any answers for it. I talked
to my brother briefly about it in hopes
that he remembered more than I do. But
all I got was a long tirade about
whatever medical condition the guy
probably had for his mouth to be like
that. He's an annoying medical student
now. And sometimes I think maybe the guy
didn't mean any harm and was just
drugged out of his mind. But this was in
the world's safest neighborhood and
doesn't explain why or how he showed up
at my dad's workplace.
[Music]
This happened over 10 years ago, but I
still think about how close I came to
dying. I was already with my future
husband when I met his cousin and we had
a lot in common. We both struggled with
addiction and anorexia. We talked on the
phone and met up to eat and see a movie,
but he kissed me in his car, so I
decided it was best if we just stopped
talking. I told my future husband about
the kiss and he was understanding. I
didn't tell him that his cousin got
extremely upset over me turning him
down.
Some time passed and we started meeting
up as friends. Since we were both
starving ourselves, we always went to
the same place. But after a couple of
times, I felt like it wasn't healthy for
either of us to meet up. He asked me to
meet up one last time and I stupidly
said yes. We went to our place and
during dinner, he was talking about his
apartment and job, how happy he could
make me. I got uncomfortable and asked
him to drive me home.
It was really late and instead of
driving me home, he drove me to the
forest preserve. It was pitch black
because all the lights were off and I
immediately felt uneasy.
We were alone in the parking lot and I
had a horrible feeling at this point
that something was going to happen. He
parked and turned off his car and then
looked at me and said that we were meant
for each other. I didn't want to upset
him, so I just said that he knew that I
was engaged and that we were just
friends. He had a history of violence,
so I was terrified. At that point, he
started getting really upset and almost
crying. He said that he loved me. Then
he put his arm around my neck and held
his arm down really hard on the right
side of my neck.
His arm was around my neck and I've been
looking straight ahead when suddenly I
woke up to a police officer at his
window.
He was asking if I was okay and I was
really scared and confused and I had
some vomit on my shirt and I'd wet my
pants. He pressed down on my corateed
artery for long enough that it actually
knocked me out and he was a wrestler
back in high school. He was telling the
officer that we were fine and that I was
drunk. He got a ticket, but I was too
afraid to say anything because if he was
arrested, my now husband's family
wouldn't have blamed me.
That's what I thought in the moment. I
said it was fine, but that I wanted to
go home now. I thought if I said it in
front of the officer, he would drive me
home because he took our names and he
wouldn't risk trying something else. So,
he drove me home and didn't say
anything. I don't know if he was trying
to kill me or just got so upset that he
went way overboard. Regardless, he
almost did kill me, and it really messed
me up. A person doesn't vomit and wet
themselves after a neck compression
unless they almost died. And I told my
now husband, but not right away because
I felt like it was partly my fault for
meeting up with him. I only saw him a
couple of more times at the holidays and
then he stopped coming. But he didn't
dare speak to me after what he did. If
that officer hadn't shown up, I don't
know if I'd be here still.
[Music]
This happened several years ago. While
it may not be as scary as some of the
stories here, it was definitely one of
the most terrifying, bizarre encounters
I've ever had. I'm 33 and I live in the
rural Midwest. I was born and raised in
my hometown and with the exception of a
few months of living with my father on
the East Coast, I've lived here my
entire life. I've become pretty
acquainted with the majority of the back
roads in my area.
One such road is an old highway that no
longer has the traffic of days prior to
the construction of the interstate that
runs through the town. It's a long and
winding road that offers gorgeous scenic
views during the day and a quiet escape
from the city at night. Along this road
is a small lot with no more than 10
parking spaces, two picnic tables, and a
single trash can. It's easy to miss due
to the heavily wooded area surrounding
it and the majority of the rest of the
drive to it and due to its secluded
nature, it had played host to a fair
share of teenage debauchery.
I myself spent many of Friday nights
smoking away with my friends there.
Needless to say, there were a lot of
good memories attached to this place,
and over the years, it's become one of
my favorite spots to venture to when I
need peace or solidarity.
One night about 5 years ago, my
girlfriend and I are going through a
rough patch. We had a big fight due to
having to work early in the morning and
her deciding to have a party full of her
loud and intoxicated friends. And things
escalated and I stormed out of the house
and started driving towards my favorite
spot.
As soon as I was out of the city limits,
I promptly cranked my angriest metal
music and sped down the road, chain
smoking my menthols in an effort to calm
down until I finally found the turnoff
for the spot. I was happy to find no
other cars in the lot, meaning that I
wouldn't awkwardly stumble upon two
lovers engaged in, you know, the act.
And I immediately jumped out of the car
and sat down on one of the picnic
tables, lit a cigarette, and stared at
the stars.
I sat there for several minutes until I
decided to head back to the warmth of my
car after hearing some rustling coming
from the woods. Not wanting to become a
chew toy for a coyote or an angry
bobcat, I hustled back to my car and
blared my music again, quickly
forgetting the sounds that I had just
heard. I decided to have one more smoke
and then make my way home. I smoked it
halfway through when out of nowhere, I
heard pounding coming from the passenger
side of my car.
I looked over to see a large hand
beating against the window. I turned
down my music that was still blasting.
And as I did, I can hear a very angry
voice shouting, "Open the door." while
yanking on the door handle. Thankfully,
my doors were locked. And after a few
moments, the man disappeared from the
passenger side and then reappeared out
of the driver's side window while
screaming and cursing at me to open the
door. He was now punching my window
trying to get in.
I was frozen in a mix of confusion and
fear, but eventually snapped out of it
and threw the car in reverse. It was so
dark that I didn't get a good look at
the guy except for a split second he was
illuminated by my headlights. He had a
black zip-up hoodie with the hood up, a
dark gray t-shirt, and a ball cap. He
was a stocky guy and had to be well over
6 ft as he towered over my sonata. The
only distinguishing feature that I could
make out was a very large dark beard.
And I noped out of there real quick. I
flirted across the parking lot and back
towards the highway. And that's when I
heard it, a loud bang that sounded like
a gun.
I slammed my foot on the pedal, took the
first turn I could find, and once I was
sure that no one was following me, I
slowed down and realized that I was
doing 90 on a gravel road.
At the time, one of my best friends
worked for a nearby gas station, so I
made my way to tell him the whole story.
We looked over my car thoroughly and
found a couple of dents on top of the
car and what looked like a bootprint on
my passenger door. We talked it over and
ultimately decided to not call the
police. It was a 20-minute drive to the
location from the closest town. We were
sure that the guy would most likely be
gone by the time anyone got all the way
out there. And yes, I realize that was
probably ignorant of me in hindsight.
I'm still baffled by this encounter. I
don't know if this guy wanted to rob me,
steal my car, or worse, but I'm glad
that I made it home in one piece.
[Music]
When I was a freshman in high school,
Alyssa was my role model. Alyssa was a
senior. She was so gorgeous, confident,
smart, effortlessly stylish, and always
owning the room. Back then, I was too
shy to talk to her. Seniors are already
pretty intimidating to freshmen, but
Alyssa was next level intimidating
because she was such a queen. I didn't
expect anyone to see me the way that I
saw Alyssa, but I was pleasantly
surprised in my senior year. And in my
senior year, I started finding cute
little notes in my locker. I wasn't
expecting that at all, but I was really
flattered. The first one said, "You were
beautiful in that dress on Friday."
The handwriting was neat and simple with
a cute little heart at the end. More
notes kept coming in, always in fourth
period, too. And I got a note every week
or two. I know they came during fourth
period because I checked my locker
before and after every class, and they
were all very sweet. And they said
things like, "Your smile lights up the
hallway. You shine brighter than any
star. Your homecoming photos are
straight out of a magazine cover. So
stunning."
There were more notes that I don't
remember. They weren't romantic or
flirty, and they look like things that I
might have said to Alyssa if we'd ever
spoken. I thought maybe they were from a
shy, underassman girl, and I had my
suspicions. I didn't tell anyone about
the notes, though. I really didn't want
my friends turning this into an
investigation and embarrassing whoever
was leaving them. And whoever was
leaving these messages, I genuinely
thought they meant well.
Then in the second semester, my schedule
changed. My last class of the day was
upstairs near my friend's locker. My
friend's last class was near my locker,
and we swap lockers. I forgot all about
the notes until my 18th birthday. And
that morning, my friend handed me a note
that she found in her my old locker, and
it said, "Happy birthday, princess." At
first, she thought the notes were meant
for her since any of those compliments
could fit her, too. But when she
realized that the birthday didn't match
up, she put two and two together. And
come to think of it, I don't think any
of the notes ever said my name. I
admitted that the notes had been
happening all year, and I explained that
I didn't want to make a big deal out of
it. Then my friends launched their
investigation that I had been worried
about. All the girls in our friend group
became detectives trying to solve this
little mystery. And one friend who
didn't have a fourth period class
stationed herself by the lockers to
survey that area and it worked. The
notes weren't from a shy freshman or
even from a boy. They were from a
janitor, an older woman none of us knew.
We all recognized her, but I don't think
any of us had ever talked to her. She'd
been leaving these notes for several
months, watching me closely enough to
comment on my outfits, field hockey
games, and even what I posted on
Facebook.
I saw her at the last field hockey game
of the season. She sat quietly in the
stands. That was the only time that I
noticed her watching me, but I have no
idea how I didn't notice her watching me
before.
None of us brought this up to her, and
she hadn't done anything technically
wrong, but it all felt so unsettling in
a way that's very hard to explain.
[Music]
I was a young guy in college driving
back to campus from somewhere when I ran
out of gas. It was getting dark, maybe
6:00 or 7:00 p.m. When I realized the
gas had run out, I turned off the main
street. And then, with my car's
remaining momentum, I glided until I
stopped in front of some random house. I
sat in the car trying to think if there
was anyone I knew with a car who had
stayed on campus for winter break. No
dice. So then I resigned myself to the
fact that I needed to walk to the
nearest station, fill up the little gas
can for my trunk and walked back. I
grabbed the canister and before I
started walking, I leaned on the front
of my car and looked up directions. And
just then a woman pulled into the
driveway. She was also college age and
wearing some sort of servers outfit like
she worked in fast food. I was parked
right out front of her house when she
noticed me. She approached a little
hesitant and asked if I needed help. And
I said honestly, yeah, I just run out of
gas and according to my phone, we were
kind of a far walk from the Chevron.
She looked at me like she had just seen
a ghost, though. And at first I chocked
it up to it getting late, me being a
guy, and her trying to gauge if I was
actually screwing with her, but it
really struck me how afraid she suddenly
looked. I tried to assure her that I had
the gas can and didn't need to go with
her or anything, that I could actually
pay for it. And she took the can, but
refused any money. I waited there for a
while. She came back, handed me the
canister, and then just stood there for
a second. And I could tell that she was
deciding whether or not to say
something. Then she just straight up
asked, "Do you want to hear something
weird?"
Of course, I said. And she says, "Today
at work, I I got this prank call, but it
was a weird prank call and all that. It
was just the guy on the other line kept
asking me over and over, "Have you ever
run out of gas?"
And after she told me, we both just kind
of chuckled, not really knowing what to
say except thanks and take care. And it
genuinely gives me chills every time I
think about it.
[Music]
This happened about 10 years ago in an
area between Seattle and Tacoma,
Washington. My friend, we'll just call
him R, and I used to regularly go to
Tacoma to sing karaoke at a bar there.
And to be honest, I don't think I've
ever seen the city of Tacoma during the
day. Now, anyways, it's about 1:00 or
2:00 in the morning and we're heading
back to Seattle and we have to stop for
gas. He pulls over at the station and
I'm buzzed and feeling good. So, this
creepy station doesn't even really
register with me. As I'm sitting messing
with the radio, suddenly my door swings
open. I only saw a flash of him because
it was all blindingly quick. But he was
kind of medium height, dark-kinned, like
too much tanning that is, and had a
blank stare and tattered clothing. I
remember he had a black jacket, too,
like leather or something, but it was
torn and holy. So, here I am trying to
pull the door closed, and I'm realizing
this man is very strong. And he almost
won the tugofwar with me, trying to slam
the door close. And if my adrenaline
hadn't kicked in, I don't know. I do
finally managed to get it closed after
maybe only a few seconds and immediately
start looking around for my friend,
panicked and concerned and confused.
R had already been yelling at the guy to
get the f away from my car. And
surprisingly, the man listens. R isn't
the most intimidating looking guy or
anything, but maybe the guy didn't want
to cause a scene. I don't recall there
being anyone else outside the station
with us that night, but R was being very
loud and forceful.
So, I'm watching the man walk away, and
he's not looking back at us or making a
sound that I can hear, which is what
made this entire thing more unusual.
R gets back in the car, and he's usually
calm, but dead pan, like when you see
something terrible, but you're too
scared to move. I look to see where he's
looking, and he's looking at the creepy
guy who's now facing us with that same
emotionless stare, just watching us
leave the pump and back towards the
street. And my eyes are on him the
entire time, too. We book it out of
there, and that was the end of that. And
to this day, I don't stop at a gas
station at night at all if I can help
it, unless another car is there or it's
on a busy street.
[Music]
Chad Dable was born on August 11th of
1968 and was raised Mormon in the city
of Springville, Utah.
Following high school, he was accepted
into Bringham Young University. But one
year into his education, he applied to
be a missionary, after which he spent 2
years in New Jersey.
After returning to BYU, Chad graduated
with a bachelor's in journalism and then
went on to work as a copy editor for the
Ogdenbased publication, The Standard
Examiner.
In 1990, a 22-year-old Chad would marry
a girl named Tammy Douglas, and the
couple welcomed their first child into
the world shortly afterwards.
Outwardly, Chad was living the life of a
cleancut Mormon 20some.
But beneath the surface, he began to
entertain some deeply unsettling
thoughts and hobbies.
For instance, while he was still a
student at BYU, Chad developed an
interest in cemeteries.
It started as a part-time job digging
graves in the evenings after his studies
were completed. But after a while, it
seems Chad started to enjoy the act of
digging fresh graves among those already
occupied.
Even after getting his copy editor's job
over at the Standard Examiner, Chad
maintained a second full-time
appointment as the Sexton of Springville
Cemetery.
He eventually resigned from his position
in the late '9s, but only after becoming
fixated on a new and very different kind
of hobby. In 2001, Chad published One
Foot in the Grave, a non-fiction book
that chronicled his experiences working
in cemeteries.
Thanks to a few poignant tracks
regarding mourning immortality, Chad's
first serious offering was fairly
wellreceived.
But then for his second outing, Chad
took a radically different direction. He
began to write what might be referred to
as Mormon end times fiction stories that
depicted apocalyptic situations and
dystopian futures. They often featured
thinly veiled versions of his friends
and family as protagonists with
recurring themes centering around
supernatural voices giving instructions
to his characters.
When asked where he got these ideas
from, Chad gave a very interesting
response. In the author's note of one of
his novels, Chad explained that
suffering not one but two near-death
experiences in his life had allowed him
to see, and I quote, beyond the veil.
I don't fictionalize any of the events
portrayed in my books, he writes. I'm
really not that creative. My torn veil
allows information to be downloaded into
my brain from the other side. The scenes
that I am shown are real events that
will happen.
While his claims were wellreceived among
certain sections of his audience, many
were turned off by Chad's wild claims
and wilder plot lines. And by 2009, his
readership began to shrink. Chad began
catering more and more to the mostly
radical Mormon readership that remained.
And to supplement his income, he began
giving speeches at LDS events concerned
with the second coming of Jesus and
other such endtime scenarios.
Over time, this led to Chad's religious
convictions becoming more and more
extreme, and by 2011, he was claiming to
have visions regarding the end of days.
He claimed to see earthquakes so
powerful that California and Oregon
would sink into the Pacific along with
wars so destructive they'd engulf entire
continents. But it wasn't until 2015
that he claimed to hear the voice of
God. And apparently God was telling him
to move to Rexburg, Idaho.
But right around the same time Chad was
driving Tammy and their five children
over to Idaho, a woman in Texas was
opening up one of his books. And her
name was Lorie Valow.
Born Lorie Norin Cox in Loma Linda,
California on June 26th of 1973.
Lorie was raised Mormon and by 2015 was
married to her fourth husband Charles
Valow.
Having married in 2006, the couple
adopted Charles grandnephew JJ Valow as
the boy's birth parents were unable to
care for him. And by all accounts, the
marriage was Lor's happiest and most
stable to date. But in 2015, when Lorie
became interested in Chad's Standing in
Holy Places series of books, she
experienced something of a spiritual
reawakening.
She became increasingly invested in
radical religious beliefs, read dozens
of books detailing near-death
experiences, and began listening to
podcasts hosted by excommunicated
Mormons.
3 years later in October of 2018, Lori
attended a preparing a people event in
the state of Utah. One of the speakers
was Chad Del.
Enrapttured by his vivid representations
of the end times, Lori approached Chad
following one of his speeches and
reportedly began flirting with him. Chad
then told Lorie that he believed they'd
been married in previous lifetimes. And
after exchanging phone numbers, they
began a secretive correspondence.
Under the guise of maintaining a
professional relationship, Chad and
Lorie made joint appearances on several
episodes of the Preparing a People
podcast. She claimed to have been
captivated by his unique and outspoken
beliefs. In reality, the two were
conducting a deeply sorted extrammarital
affair.
And over time, a small but deeply
fanatical cult formed around Chad and
Lorie. He christened their organization,
the Church of the Firstborn, before
crowning himself its one and only
leader. The group consisted of Lorie and
her brother, Alex Cox, along with
Lorie's friends, Melanie Gibb and Zu
Lima Pastines, the latter of whom ended
up married to Lor's brother. All had
been raised as deep adherence to the
Mormon church, but on Chad's orders,
they relinquished their beliefs with a
chilling degree of relish.
Despite being rejected by the mainstream
Mormon church, the concept of
reincarnation played a huge role in
Chad's belief system. He claimed to have
lived 31 previous lives, some on distant
planets while inhabiting the bodies of
advanced species of Xenomorph, and one
inhabiting the body of St. James the
less. a figure from early Christianity.
Lorie, on the other hand, had lived a
total of 21 previous lives, five of
which she'd spent in the company of
Chad, and one in which she inhabited the
body of Mary French, the great
grandmother of the LDS's founder, Joseph
Smith.
They were sealed, as Chad phrased it,
following their marriages and previous
lives. And conveniently, this
relationship superseded those of their
earthly marriages.
When follower Melanie Gibbs suggested
that Chad and Lorie should divorce their
spouses, Lorie told her that they were
not permitted to due to information they
were receiving from, and I quote, "the
other side of the veil." Yet, while Chad
and Lorie had no problem granting
themselves a couple of heavenly hall
passes, they were incredibly judgmental
when it came to other people. Chad
categorized people as either light or
dark depending on whether he associated
them with Christ or Satan, but his
judgment was far from arbitrary.
He and Lorie employed a uniquely
elaborate scoring system, making people
up for virtuous or saintly
characteristics and marking them down
for morally dubious or outright sinful
behavior. Those who scored highly were
considered to be reincarnations of
famous figures from Christian history,
while those on the bottom end of the
scale were considered to be possessed by
evil spirits. If the group liked you and
deemed you worthy of saving, they might
perform what they referred to as a
casting, a ceremony in which they try to
cast away evil spirits through prayers
and scripture readings. However, if the
demons inside a possessed person were
too heavily entrenched and thus
impossible to exercise, Chad and Lorie
claimed the only possible remedy was
death.
As you can tell, the passage of time saw
Chad and Lorie's beliefs become more and
more extreme, and eventually Chad began
making apocalyptic proclamations and
insisted the end of the world would come
on July 22nd of 2020.
He told his followers that he was guided
by angels and could see hidden truths.
While Lorie claimed to be an exalted
goddess, able to see the future and
unconcerned with earthly laws. She
became increasingly disinterested with
her husband Charles Valow. And in
February of 2019, she told him that she
no longer cared about their marriage or
their adopted son, JJ.
Lorie then loaded up her truck and
disappeared for almost three whole
months.
When she finally returned home, she was
confronted by her husband and a vicious
argument erupted. During the fight,
Lorie told Charles that he was possessed
by the evil spirit of a man named Ned
Schneider and that this was the root of
all the negativity in their marriage.
But that's not all. Lorie then told
Charles that rather than a mere mortal,
she was a living deity assigned to carry
out the work of the 144,000 on the
occasion of Christ's second coming,
which coincidentally was only 18 months
away. There was much work to be done
between that day and the date of
Christ's return. And if Charles got in
her way, Lorie would murder him.
The threat to his life prompted Charles
to consider divorce, but ultimately he
decided not to give up on her. Lorie was
quite clearly suffering from severe
mental health issues. And as her
husband, it's reasonable to believe
Charles felt a great deal of
responsibility for her. But as the
saying goes, no good deed goes
unpunished.
Right around the same time Charles
decided to stick around and work on his
marriage, his wife had stopped referring
to him by name altogether.
In secret text exchanges between Chad
and her brother Alex, Lorie routinely
called her husband Ned or Hippos, the
latter being the name of the demon
thought to have possessed him. Lorie
told members of her small but fanatical
cult that Charles had become a zombie
and that if he couldn't be redeemed
through prayer and casting, there would
be grave consequences.
But before efforts to save his soul have
even commenced, Charles Valow discovered
his wife's affair.
Somehow Charles managed to obtain the
email address of Tammy Debel, Chad's
long-suffering wife. He drafted a long
and heartfelt email informing Tammy of
their spouse's infidelities after
apologizing for the pain his revelation
might cause. Shockingly, after reading
through the email, Tammy Debbel simply
deleted it and then blocked Charles's
email address.
Following a huge confrontation regarding
the discovery of the affair, Lorie left
Chad's home to stay in Chandler, Arizona
with little JJ, splitting his time
between his parents. Then on July 11th
of 2019, Charles drove over to Lor's
home to pick up JJ. But upon his
arrival, he was confronted by none other
than Lor's brother, Alex.
There was an altercation between the
two, Charles retrieved a baseball bat
from the trunk of his car. Alex Cox
responded by shooting him dead.
16-year-old Tyle Ryan, Lorie's daughter
from her third husband, later confirmed
that Charles did indeed arm himself with
a bat, but had run back to the house by
the time the shooting commenced and
couldn't provide any further insight
into the moments before Charles's death.
Incredibly, and most likely based on
Tyle's testimony, no charges were filed
against Alex, and the shooting was
deemed to be self-defense.
Neighbors reported that later the next
day they witnessed a very loud and very
jubilant pool party at Lor's Arizona
home. And by August of 2019, Lorie had
relocated her family to Rexburg, Idaho
in order to be closer to Chad.
Upon her arrival, neighbors noticed that
little JJ's behavior appeared erratic
and that Lorie often left him outside to
play alone without adult supervision and
for long periods of time. When
confronted about this, Lorie neglected
to mention that young JJ was autistic
and instead told neighbors that he was
quote her niece's drug baby.
Just weeks later, Lorie and her brother
Alex took Tylee on a hiking trip to
Yellowstone National Park. They walked
the trails, ate snacks, but when their
trip drew to a close, only Lorie and
Alex climbed back into her truck.
Lorie would later tell neighbors that
Tyle had been accepted into Brigham
Young University on some kind of early
scholarship program for gifted high
schoolers.
In reality, no one would ever see Tyle
again.
A few weeks after the Yellowstone trip
on September 22nd of 2019, Melanie Gibb
and her boyfriend David Warwick were
staying at Lor's home. In the evening,
Warwick saw Alex Cox taking a sleeping
JJ upstairs to his bedroom, and this
marked the last time anyone would see
the boy alive.
A few days later, Lorie informed Rexburg
Elementary School that she would now be
homeschooling her adopted son. But the
truth was infinitely more disturbing.
In October 2019, two Venmo payments were
made from Tylie's account to her older
half brother Colby Ryan with odd
messages attached. When he expressed
concern towards Tyle via text, he
received responses from her cell phone
indicating that she was safe but too
busy to talk. Melanie Gibb later said
that Lorie and Chad were convinced Tyl
and JJ were possessed and had become
zombies.
Z Lima Pastenis also testified that Chad
had told his followers how shortly
before the little boy's disappearance,
young JJ would soon die. But JJ's death
was not the only one Chad predicted
around this time. He began telling his
followers that his wife Tammy was in
limbo after becoming possessed by a
spirit named Viola.
Her case was a severe one. If they
didn't act soon, she was in danger of
becoming a zombie. And that was
something which Chad was never going to
allow.
Right around the same time Kobby Ryan
was receiving Venmo payments from his
dead sister, Tammy Debel returned home
from an errand, parked in her driveway,
and stepped out of her car. A masked man
stepped out from the shadows, aimed an
assault rifle at her, then pulled the
trigger. Tammy screamed, but her shriek
of terror was the only sound to pierce
the evening silence. the rifle had
misfired.
Tammy later told police that due to his
mask, she had been unable to identify
the man who attempted to shoot her.
Police warned her to be much more
vigilant and to report any further
developments, but it was no good. 10
days later, Tammy was found dead in her
home, apparently from natural causes.
Chad claimed that she had retired the
previous night with what he called a
terrible cough and that she tragically
died in her sleep. He also mentioned
that Tammy had been experiencing low
blood pressure, seizures, and negative
reactions with homeopathic medicines,
though none of her medical records
supported his claims.
3 days later, at Tammy's funeral,
mourers found Chad's behavior extremely
suspicious.
The funeral came so soon, but it still
felt so planned, one said. Others said
Chad seemed business-like and that he
didn't seem upset and that he wasn't
crying, but was trying to cry.
Mourners were then deeply perturbed when
Chad referred to his late wife as lazy
and not easy to live with during what
was supposed to be a heartfelt eulogy.
Chad's sister-in-law, Heather Delbel,
thought his behavior verged on the
bizaar and later stated that he just
didn't seem upset.
In the weeks that followed, Chad began
introducing Lorie to his friends and
family. One of his neighbors, Alice
Gilbert, described her first meeting
with Lorie as awkward, as despite the
fact Chad had only recently buried his
wife of three decades, he seemed
remarkably happy. Gilbert observed that
the couple was very affectionate.
laughing and joking with one another,
even as Lorie explained how her daughter
had passed away just six months prior.
This marked the first admission that
Tyle was deceased. But since Alice
Gilbert was just a neighbor, she had no
inkling whatsoever of the admission's
sinister implications.
Despite the cryptic hints at their
terrible crimes, Chad and Lorie played
the role of a happy, wholesome Mormon
couple who had bonded over personal
tragedy.
But by late November, their mass were
beginning to slip. On November 26th of
2019, police visited Lorie's Rexburg
townhouse at the request of K. Valow,
sister of the recently deceased Charles
Valow. She hadn't heard from little JJ
for weeks and was beginning to grow
concerned. And so on the afternoon of
the 26th, two Rexburg police officers
stopped by Lorie's home. There they
found Chad Delil and Alex Cox who
informed them that while Lorie wasn't
home, they were more than happy to
answer any questions the officers might
have. When asked where JJ was, Alex Cox
claimed that he was with his paternal
grandmother, K. Valow, the same woman
who had called in the welfare check to
begin with.
Officers knew that he was lying, but
played along before asking Chad where
Lorie was. Chad replied that he quote
hardly knew Lorie and was only present
at her home because he was a friend of
Alex. Again, that was demonstrably
false.
Marriage licenses are a matter of public
record, and seeing as Chad and Lorie had
gotten hitched in Hawaii just weeks
prior, the cops knew that he was lying,
too. When they eventually got in touch
with Lorie, she too provided the police
with easily disprovable information. She
claimed JJ was staying with Melanie Gibb
in Arizona. One phone call was all it
took to prove this was a lie. Chad and
Lorie might have made grave mistakes in
lying to the police, but they weren't
entirely moronic. They knew the game was
up, and just hours after police came to
question them, they loaded up a truck
with their belongings and fled to
Hawaii.
Right around the same time Chad and
Lorie were moving into a rental home on
the island of Kauaii, police officers
were conducting thorough searches of
their homes. Days later, the Rexburg
Police Department officially pronounced
JJ and Thyle as missing persons and
asked for the public's assistance in
locating them. Police also announced
that Chad and Lorie were persons of
interest following their prompt
departure from the mainland United
States and that the children's
disappearance might well be linked to
the suspicious death of Chad's late
wife, Tammy.
As interest in the case grew, so did the
amount of media attention it received.
And before long, news networks all over
the country were broadcasting interviews
with people who described the errant
couple's beliefs as frightening,
disturbed, and cultlike.
Incredibly, Chad and Lorie released a
statement through their attorney on
December 23rd of 2019.
An extract from the statement reads as
follows.
Chad Del was a loving husband and he has
the support of his children in this
matter. While Lori is a devoted mother
who resents assertions to the contrary,
all false allegations will be addressed
once we have moved beyond speculation
and rumor.
Their statement was met with a response
in early 2020 when a collection of the
couple's relatives issued a public
message begging Lorie and Chad return
the children.
They announced a reward of $20,000 being
offered to anyone who either returned
the missing children or shared
information directly contributing to
their return.
Weeks later, on January 25th of 2020,
Lori and Chad were located in Kauaii and
were handed a court order requiring Lori
to physically produce Tyle and JJ at the
Idaho Department of Welfare within the
next 5 days.
The next day, police seized the couple's
rental car and searched their rental
town home in Princeville. Both Tyle's
debit card and JJ's iPad were recovered.
Just hours after their Princeville home
was searched, the Daybells were
confronted by an East Idaho news
reporter named Nate Eaton. Eaton asked
them where the children were. Chad and
Lorie refused to answer. Finally, on
February 20th of 2020, Lorie was
arrested by the Kauaii Police Department
before being extradited to Idaho.
Her arrest prompted Chad to also return
to Idaho where he tried convincing his
neighbor, Alice Gilbert, to put her home
up for bond to get Lori out of prison.
When she asked why, he told her Jesus
had given him the idea. When Alice then
confronted him on what he had said about
Lorie's daughter being dead, Chad gave a
ky answer about it being a custody issue
and then promptly fled the scene.
Months went by without development until
finally in June of 2020, police found
human remains buried in unmarked graves
in the backyard of Chad's home. The
bodies were located in an area the
Debel's family called the pet cemetery
as it had been used to bury their cats
and dogs.
As the property was being searched, Chad
phoned Lorie in jail to warn her about
the situation. Then, after police found
and began to unearth the bodies, he
tried to flee the scene. He was chased
down, apprehended, and then placed under
arrest for concealment of evidence.
Days after the discovery of the
so-called pet cemetery, police confirmed
the human remains found on Chad's
property belonged to the missing
children, Tyle and JJ.
Tyle's body had been burned and her
hands had been cut off, while little
JJ's body was relatively undamaged,
having been wrapped in plastic before
being gently lowered into the makeshift
grave. However, unlike JJ, Tylie's
remains had not been treated with such
reverence. Her corpse was so decomposed
and damaged that her cause of death
could not officially be determined,
while JJ's had been carefully dispatched
with a plastic bag over his head and
duct tape over his mouth, possibly after
being drugged.
Following the announcement that the
children's bodies have been found, Chad
Del was officially excommunicated by the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints on the basis of his religious
teachings, some of which were described
as those of a doomsday cult. At the
trials, Lorie was found guilty of the
murder of her children. She received
three consecutive life sentences for the
murders and conspiracy with an
additional two life sentences and a
10-year term for grand theft to be
served concurrently.
She now resides at the Women's
Correctional Center in Pocutello, Idaho.
Chad's convictions came the following
year when he was pronounced guilty on
all counts, including murder,
conspiracy, and insurance fraud. He was
sentenced to death in June of 2024 and
is currently being held at the Idaho
Maximum Security Institution in Boise.
If he's a man of conviction and believes
he'll be reincarnated on another plane
of existence, facing the lethal
injection shouldn't be too frightening
for old 31 Lives Chad.
But if those convictions waver, if his
beliefs were merely a tool with which he
could manipulate and murder without
feeling an ounce of guilt, then it'll be
a morbid comfort to know he faced the
same mortal terror as those his victims
did in their own final moments on Earth.
[Music]
What feels like a lifetime ago, I
decided to go visit a friend living in
San Francisco, which involved driving
just over a thousand miles from our
hometown of Montrose, Colorado.
My plan was drive all the way through
Utah in a single day, spend the night of
the Holiday Inn in a little place called
Ellie, Nevada, and then drive the rest
of the way to San Fran after a good
night's sleep and a decent breakfast.
Thankfully, I made it on time and in one
piece. But that didn't mean that the
journey went smoothly. It might sound
funny, but I'd never been to Utah before
the drive to San Francisco.
It's less than a 100 miles west of
Montrose, but if I left town, it was
usually to drive east to Boulder or
maybe Denver. I knew eastern Colorado
could be pretty desolate, but Utah was a
whole other story. By the time I drove
through a place called Delta, the
landscape looked like something out of a
sci-fi movie. The road had been nothing
but a straight line through the desert
for hours. And about 30 to 45 minutes
past Delta, I realized that I messed up.
I should have stopped for gas when I had
the chance. And by the time I realized
my gas gauge was creeping towards empty,
I started to panic a little bit. The
last thing I wanted was to be stranded
in the middle of nowhere. So, you can
imagine my relief when I suddenly saw a
sign up ahead. It was the first sign of
civilization since I'd left Delta. A
solitary gas station sign which read
last chance gas 5 miles.
I thank God out loud. Not that I'm
really a believer, but you get where I'm
coming from. And then a few minutes
later, I spotted what looked like a
small town coming up on the horizon.
It sort of clung to the highway. This
cluster of dilapidated buildings with
peeling paint and broken windows. Not
the nicest place I'd ever seen, but it
was a very welcome sight.
Gravel crunched under my tires as I
pulled into the station, and there was
no one at the pumps, no cars in sight,
and no sign of life from the small store
attached to the station. When I turned
off the engine, I was suddenly struck by
how quiet everything was. I glanced
around and saw the town was eerily
still. People talk about sleepy desert
towns, but I remember thinking, "Sleepy?
This place is in a goddamn coma."
Approaching the gas pump, I noticed it
was of an old model, the kind that you
don't really see anymore. The nozzle
felt heavy and the kind of heavy where
it feels like it was designed to just
last forever. But when I tried to pump
gas, there was just no flow. I shook it,
gave it a tap against the pump, hoping
that that might fix it, but there was
nothing. It was like the pump itself was
just completely empty.
Assuming that there was some trick to
getting the pump to work that only the
station's attendant might know, I went
into the old gas station to look for
some help. The door creaked when I
opened it, and a bell rang, sounding
weirdly loud, and the place looked old,
very old. Snacks on the shelves were
vintage, like those bright, colorful
candies from like decades ago. And the
cash register was almost from another
era. All metal, very heavy with just
huge buttons. And the posters on the
walls were very faded, showing
promotions for movies and events from
probably all the way back in 2001. And
when I got there, this was, I think, the
fall of 2009.
I called out hello, but my voice just
echoed back at me and no one seemed to
answer.
On the counter, there was an old
newspaper from 8 years ago talking about
some kind of festival. And the calendar
behind the counter was stuck on the same
date as that newspaper, still showing
June 2001.
And that's when I started to feel very
uneasy. I went to check the back room
and the door was open a little and
inside was more of the same. There was a
mug with what looked like old dry
remains of coffee at the bottom, a code
still hanging on the back of a chair,
and a silent radio that was plugged in
but not playing anything. I found a
ledger with the last entry on the same
day as the newspaper. And it was like
everyone in town just disappeared on
that day.
I left the back room and saw through the
window that the playground across the
street was empty. swings moving gently
in the wind, but no kids or adults
around. Then on the way back to my car,
I just felt this burning curiosity
taking over my unease, and I decided to
just look around a little more in the
town before I drove off. Every door I
tried was locked, and every window was
dusty with grime and soot, like no one
had been there for a long time. In one
house, the door was slightly open. And
inside it was like whoever lived there
had stepped out of their house in the
expectation they'd be back in mere
minutes, but they'd never come back. A
book was open on the couch. There was
another glass of dried something with
dead mold clinging to the rim of it. And
upstairs, a kid's room had toys
scattered in the floor like play had
just suddenly stopped and never resumed.
I knew that I shouldn't have been in
there, but I just had to check. And
after I backed out of that kid's room,
two thoughts were going back and forth
in my head. The first being just what in
the hell was I thinking walking around a
total stranger's house? It was like I
came to my senses thinking, "What if all
these good but slightly untidy folks are
at a county fair or something and some
psycho, me, is just wandering around
their homes?" I also appreciate how in
denial that sounds, but never
underestimate the mind's ability to try
and rationalize things in favor of going
into complete fight or flight mode. But
the second thought was more in lines
with, okay, I'm pretty sure something
bad happened to these people, and if I
don't get the hell out of here, whatever
happened to them is going to happen to
me, too.
And I hurried back to my car, feeling
like I really shouldn't be there now,
but also with that horrible feeling that
someone was watching me, even though I
was 99% sure the place was completely
abandoned.
In my car, I tried my phone. Really
didn't have any reception. And next, I
actually tried the radio, and it was
just crappy static. I mean, I guess we
technically were in like a dead zone out
there. As I started the car, I was
worried that I was going to run out of
gas and end up stranded in the middle of
nowhere. But that place had me so
unsettled that it seemed worth the risk.
If I got stranded, it' suck. But it was
damn sure preferable to staying in that
place for even a minute longer. And
thankfully, I had just enough gas to
make it to cross the state line and
actually make it to Ellie.
But by the time I rolled into Chevron,
I'm not even exaggerating when I said I
was running on fumes. As I filled up my
car, I noticed that I had some bars
finally on my phone. But since I didn't
want to use it at the gas station, they
still had signs up back then saying,
"Please do not use your cell phone." And
I went inside to ask the clerk if I
could use their phone instead, which
would also give me the chance to ask
them about that abandoned town.
The clerk seemed to have no idea what I
was talking about, but that didn't
really surprise me. I suppose what did
was how matterof fact the deputy sheriff
was when I called his office back in
Utah. The clerk knew enough to know that
I must have come through Millard County
if I'd been on Route 50. So, I knew I
had the right people when I called them
up after looking through the phone book.
The first deputy I talked to knew what I
was talking about and knew the place.
They called it Milberg, that it had been
abandoned for a number of years, and he
just really didn't know why, I guess. I
then asked if I could talk to someone
higher up, and he put me on the phone
with the deputy sheriff, who, like I
said, was very open about some things.
He just wasn't so open about others.
When I told him about the abandoned
town, he actually gave me a little
chuckle as he was like, "Oh yeah, you
must have stopped in Milberg.
The place has been empty for years now.
He told me I had nothing to worry about.
And despite it looking very creepy,
there was nothing sinister about the
place at all. More like the place had
been scheduled for demolition for a few
years. But the people who bought the
land couldn't get permits.
So till they did, Millard County had its
very own ghost town, one that even
attracted the odd tourists who actually
enjoyed getting the willies from being
in an abandoned place like Milberg. And
I'll be honest, the sheriff's answer was
actually very reassuring, and I felt
kind of silly for having worked myself
up into a minor freakout over it. But
then, just before we were about to end
that call, I asked the sheriff why
Milberg had been abandoned.
And he paused and then asked me, "You
some kind of reporter?" And when I told
him no, he said if I wanted to talk
about it, I was more than welcome to
stop by their office over in Filillmore.
and he was much more comfortable talking
about it face to face rather than over
the phone.
Now, call me paranoid, but I think that
was sort of like a bluff or something. I
think he was counting on me to not stop
by the office to talk about this, and he
was kind of right because I didn't. I
kept going towards San Francisco and was
only like an hour or so later than my
schedule. So, like I said at the start,
I made it in one piece and on time.
But it was majorly on my mind for the
rest of that day. And my friends and I,
who I'd driven all the way out there to
see, had a long talk about it that
evening, and it amounted to this. My
friends basically said that, yeah,
something bad probably did happen out
there in Milberg, but that it wasn't
something I should be fixating on. The
right authorities seemed to be on top of
it, and no wonder the deputy sheriff was
cautious of reporters. He'd probably
been burned in the past after some loose
talk made it into the papers.
and my friend thought it was basically a
case of my imagination getting the
better of me after having stopped
somewhere that I shouldn't have. I
mentioned the fact that if I have
stopped in Delta for gas like I was
supposed to, I'd have just rolled
through Milberg like it was any other
town and it wouldn't have been on my
mind like it was. My friend then told me
to live in that reality. pretend that
I'd never even seen Milberg. Because
when it comes to events where whole
towns disappear, sometimes ignorance
truly is bliss. That helped me keep
Milberg off my mind for a couple of
days. But obviously, when the trip drew
to an end, I had to drive back the way I
came. I considered taking a diversion
and stopping in Filillmore to see if I
could talk to the deputy sheriff again.
But then I was reminded of what my
friend told me. After making sure that I
had enough gas, I floored it after
seeing Milberg in the distance, zooming
through that town in barely 2 or 3
seconds. And I didn't look back, not
even for a second.
[Music]
My name's Darren. I'm from Cornwall. And
I don't know if this counts as a scary
story in the traditional sense, but it
scared me, so maybe it'll scare you,
too. So, basically a few years ago, I
found out that an old schoolmate of mine
had become the youngest ever person in
the UK to be convicted of being a
terrorist.
The police raided his mom and dad's
house back in 2019 and nicknamed him
after they found instructions on how to
make bombs. He went to court over it,
but managed to dodge prison time because
of how young he was when he downloaded
the instructions.
The local paper said that he was a
neo-Nazi, and I'm not disputing that
because apparently the old Bill found
all sorts of Hitler stuff when they
raided his bedroom. But when I looked
into it myself, there was way more to it
than that. When I first heard about it,
I read every single article about it
that I could get my hands on. I used to
be dead pie with the guy back in year 7
and year 8 and seemed like an all right
kid back then. But then apparently after
I moved schools at the start of year 9,
he took a drastic turn for the worse.
The whole thing hit really close to
home. So you can imagine I wanted to
know as much about it as I possibly
could. Mainly because I wanted to know
what had gone so wrong in the guy's life
that he thought about making bombs. And
that's how I discovered while reading
one online article that my old pal had
been visiting the website of a group
known as 09A.
And the article kind of glossed over any
details on the group and stated that
they were neo-Nazis and just moved on.
But like I said, there was a lot more to
it than that.
Having read a lot about various UK
neo-Nazi groups while researching my old
palace arrest, the name 09A jumped out
at me immediately because I've never
heard of it before. I'd read all about
the National Front, National Action, and
the likes of Combat 18, but never
anything about a group called 09A. So,
out of sheer curiosity, I decided to do
some research on them to see what my old
pal had gotten himself into.
Then, from the moment I plugged the name
into Google, I think my jaw stayed on
the floor for the whole time.
09A stands for the order of the nine
angles, and that's angles, not angels.
And to put it in the simplest terms
possible, they're Nazi Satanists. They
want to tear down society, which they
think is controlled by Jews, and build a
new one based on paganism and a sort of
survival of the fittest mentality. One
of their big beliefs is human sacrifice,
which they think will speed up the
downfall of civilization.
But they're not all talk when it comes
to actually inflicting suffering and
things like that. as I found out for
myself when I looked them up. In the
summer of 1997, two Swedish members of
the09A committed the Keeler Park murder,
which was where those two blo tried to
ritually sacrifice an Algerian man. Then
in 2019, an American soldier was found
out to be a member of the Order of the
Nine Angles and was planning on
kidnapping and killing his fellow
soldiers in the name of Satan. I know
you're probably thinking, "Okay, I was
with you, too." who tried making out
that there's satanic terrorists in the
US Army. Well, please, if you think I'm
trying to mess with you, then look it
up. The fella's name is Ethan Melzer,
and there's a bloody New York Times
article about the whole thing. And this
is legit, not just some stupid creepy
pasta. The year after that, another
soldier was found to be a member of 09A.
only this was a member of a group within
the '09A called, and you might want to
spell this out instead of saying it so
you don't get in trouble, the rape
waffen. The group of scumbags hatched
the idea of violating white girls and
getting them pregnant from it so that
more white babies would be born. Like I
said, my jaw is resting firmly on the
floor by this point as I was reading
stuff like that. And because it
legitimately sounds like badly written
blue hair fanfiction, I had to stop and
look all this up as I was reading it,
only to find out that yeah, it was all
true.
Another one that sounded too insane to
be true was the story about another
member of the Order of Nine Angles whose
name I've got handy, but I don't know
that you want to edit it out, but he's
named Luke Austin Lane. He and his two
mates were caught planning the murder of
some Antifa couple. And yeah, I'm no fan
of Antifa, but this bloke was actually
planning on killing this couple's kids
in front of them before finishing them
off in turn. They're kids, man. What
kind of scumbag deliberately executes
innocent kids like that? And I just
couldn't believe what I was reading, but
it kept going. To prepare for the
murders, Luke Lane and his mates killed
a sheep, drank its blood, and then took
a lot of LSD or mushrooms or something
to go on a sort of spiritual journey. I
read another thing about a bloke in
Canada who killed a Muslim guy and then
I think he stabbed some seek fella and
then when he was caught, boom, police
found out that he was a member of 09A.
And there are loads more satanic murders
like that, mainly in Scandinavia and
Eastern Europe. And they're all
connected to what is literally a satanic
terrorist group. But to be honest,
that's not even the half of it. Because
if you look up all the stuff that the
orders members are involved in, you
start seeing the same sick pattern
playing out over and over again.
Excluding 2018, every single year for
the past seven years, a member of the
Order of the Nine Angles had been
arrested and convicted of being a child
abuser. Be that through having material
on their hard drives or actually doing
disgusting things themselves. Most of
these incidents have been in the UK, but
as of 2021, they've spread to America
and Sweden, too. But then, as much as
you might think that these dudes are
just straight up creeps, and hear me out
about this one, I don't think that's
necessarily the case. The Order of the
Nine Angles has these two documents
about human sacrifices.
One's called A Gift for the Prince, and
the other is called Calling, a guide to
sacrifice.
Most of their literature is absolute
garbage. Like, it's legitimately
difficult because of how much jargon and
inside language they use. But there's
one bit that really stood out to me.
Something that makes me think that all
the sea stuff is basically part of their
ethos.
The order says that human sacrifice
isn't just confined to killing people.
If they were burning and decapitating
people every week, they'd all be caught
in no time, right? Well, to continually
propagate human suffering without overly
alerting the authorities, the order
distributes CSM as a way of sort of
feeding evil, if that makes sense. It
sounded wild to me at first, too. I can
promise you. But the more I read and the
more I thought about it, the more it all
started to make this sort of horrible
kind of sense to me. The kids involved
in this, it's them that are being
sacrificed. And by distributing the
images of them being abused, the order
of the nine angles is able to sacrifice
them over and over again while
corrupting other people in the process.
Again, I know this sounds too insane to
be true, but here's yet another example
of it happening back in 2020. In April
of that year, Russian police raided the
homes of a group suspected of, and this
is a direct quote from the Russian
website now, incitement to murder due to
religious and racial hatred. and
criminal activities against women. I
think they thought that these dudes were
just neo-Nazis, but during the raids,
they found the men were members of a
Russian-based chapter of the '09A called
Legion A Satan.
Turns out one of these lads had burned
down a really old church someplace, and
it was never solved until they found
photos of him setting it on fire in his
house. But that wasn't the worst part of
it. As I was reading about this group, I
remember thinking, "Okay, well, at least
these lads weren't pedos." But then
lower down the article from the Russian
website, I saw that they were they had
been grooming kids in this place,
Kranadar, where they lived and were
trying to get them into underage
prostitution.
And I imagine that they were going to
profit in some way from it. But that's
not the point with these Order of the
Nine Angles people. It's about
suffering. It's about the suffering of
innocent people and that's what they
trade in. And it's because human
suffering makes Satan more powerful. So
they say it has to be a specific kind of
human suffering though. The kind that
doesn't improve a person. Things like
grief, severe physical pain of the
lifelong mental scarring that comes with
being abused at a really young age. And
I'm sure you'll agree. The order of the
nine angles rabbit hole makes for some
of the worst stuff you've ever heard.
And by the time I'd finished reading
about it, I was in two minds about my
old mate not getting any jail time. He
was 14 when he got into that order, 16
when he was arrested. So yeah, I can put
that down to something a stupid teenage
boy would do. But the order is no joke.
And the fact that he has some of their
human sacrifice documents downloaded on
his computer was very worrying. I'm not
saying that we should lock everyone up
who does or says something silly on the
internet, but reading through all the09A
stuff makes me wonder if a mistake
hasn't been made. And I hope my old mate
turns a new leaf and it was all just a
silly phase to him. I mean, he's
definitely sorry that he got caught
because I know for a fact that he's got
all kinds of restrictions placed on him.
And don't ask me how I know. Everyone
knows everyone in Cornwall, but I know
he can't go on certain websites or talk
to certain people. And if he does, he's
in serious trouble.
That would definitely have me thinking.
I've made a mistake here. And I really
do hope that he sees it that way.
Because honestly, the alternative is
bloody well terrifying, isn't it? If he
cracks on with life and it becomes
something deaf that he did back when he
was a lad, then good on him. But if not,
well, I imagine I'll be reading about
him at some point in the future for
whatever terrible thing that he does in
the name of the devil.
[Music]
I used to do a lot of urban exploring
out of Chicago and me and my crew ticked
off a lot of places over the years.
There are the big grain silos in Pilson
left empty after a big explosion. And
then near Joliet, there's an old prison
with cells and chapels now open for
tours. In Gary, Indiana, we saw this
incredibly beautiful but decaying
church. than under Chicago. There are
old freight tunnels, mostly closed off
now, that were anything but beautiful.
The old Chicago post office was huge and
empty for years. And there's the old
Cook County Hospital, now becoming a
hotel, but once a place right out of
Silent Hill. But then after a while, we
started looking further to hit up places
that we hadn't been before.
And that's when we heard about a place
in the middle of nowhere over in Iowa
called Buckhorn.
Back in the 1900s, Buckhorn used to be a
pretty prosperous place because of the
big crearyy that they had in town. It
used to turn out hundreds of tons of
butter a week and it employed almost
everyone in town. But then when rising
costs forced the crearyy to shut down,
it meant just about the whole town was
suddenly out of work overnight.
And with no jobs, people started leaving
one family at a time. Then I think by
the 80s or early 90s, the place was just
a total ghost town.
We did some research online, mainly
using forums where others would post
about their experiences and drew up a
list of places we wanted to visit. There
was obviously the old crearyy, which was
huge and falling apart. But there was
also the abandoned church and cemetery
we could take a look at along with a
handful of other places too. It looked
like a great place to explore. The only
drawback was the 4-hour car ride. And
since it was late October when we got
the urge to visit, it meant starting the
journey at the crack of dawn if we
wanted to hit up all of our chosen spots
before it went dark.
So, one day in early November, we loaded
up my friend Mike's van and then we
drove off down Highway 64 in the
direction of the Iowa State line. The
weather was miserable when we hit the
road. A cold, gray Saturday morning that
I'd much rather have just spent in bed,
but honestly, Herbex, when the weather
is nice, feels kind of odd. And no
filter in existence makes a place feel
glooier or creepier than a naturally
overcast sky.
And on top of that, the prospect of
hitting up a brand new place kept us so
excited that we didn't mind that the
heating in Mike's van was completely
broken. And besides, each of us was
dressed for the Arctic, so the cold was
at the back of our minds as we got
closer and closer to Buckhorn.
When we arrived, the town was exactly as
you'd imagine, empty and silent, with
buildings that looked like they'd
crumble if you so much as looked at them
for too long. The streets were overgrown
with weeds, and apart from the sound of
the wind whispering around the abandoned
buildings, it was completely silent.
We started at the old schoolhouse, a
building that seemed to sag under the
weight of its own rotting structure. And
inside, the air was musty and dank, and
there were leaks almost everywhere from
the previous day's rain. How the place
was still standing was beyond me, and I
was way more worried about it coming
down in our heads, even after I saw what
was written on the chalkboard.
Mike pointed it out at first, directing
us into a classroom that had the word
danger written on the chalkboard in big
white letters with an exclamation point.
Mike was smiling when he showed us, and
it got a little chuckle out of me, too.
You see a lot of that kind of spooky
graffiti around welltroddenbeck sites
and it's usually a little more creative
than just danger. You pay attention to
official looking signs and warnings
about unstable structures or active
power cables and all of that. But when
it comes to stuff like abandoned hope
all ye who enter here or Penny Wise's
layer, you tend not to take it very
seriously. And we figured the danger on
the chalkboard amounted to some other
Herbexer's tag, like an unsettling way
of saying, "I got here first."
But these days, I think that graffiti
was much more significant than we first
imagined.
We moved on to the other classrooms,
checking the chalkboards for more
messages, but there was nothing. And I
remember the desk being covered in a
thick layer of dust. And after wiping at
some of it with his glove to see just
how thick it really was, Mike started
playfully chasing us around and
threatening to wipe that grime on one of
our jackets. And that's when I first
noticed something was off with our
friend Tom. He was usually the most
enthusiastic of us. His camera was
always ready. His curiosity was
boundless. But that day, he seemed tired
and distracted, almost like he was in
some kind of days. He barely reacted as
Mike came at him. And when he did notice
what was on his finger, he didn't really
even find it funny. He just snapped at
Mike. Not overly harshly or anything,
but we knew that the joke was over and
moved on from the school to the general
store.
The shelves were still stocked with cans
made by brands that we'd never heard of,
and some of their labels faded so badly
that we could barely read them. Tommy
stayed quiet as we walked the aisles,
which again was totally not like him. By
the time we got to the old town hall,
his behavior had gotten even weirder. He
seemed like he was muttering to himself,
his eyes darting around like he was
seeing things that we couldn't. Then
suddenly, Tommy reached up and just
started clutching his nose.
Blood poured out dark and thick and
staining his gray gloves. and he looked
scared. We tried to help, but he backed
up and held out an arm like, "Get the
hell off of me." His nose was bleeding
so much that one of us actually asked if
Tommy was good to keep going. But the
idea seemed to just irritate him even
more than his nose bleed.
He said we hadn't driven all that way to
just turn around and leave over a nose
bleed. And in the moment, I appreciated
how unselfish it sounded. No one wanted
to just leave. Not if we could avoid it.
So, as Mike went into his pack to get
our first aid kit so Tommy could stem
the blood coming out of his nose, I
wandered off alone towards the old
sheriff's office to take a look around.
It looked much like I had imagined it to
at first. Reception area, back office,
hallway leading to what must have been
cells of some description. It wasn't
immediately visible from the front door,
but the second I turned the corner into
the reception area, I saw it in huge
black letters dobbed in what must have
been spray paint where the words, "If
you bleed, leave Buckhorn and never
return."
The sight of it sent literal shivers
down my spine immediately, and I ran
back to tell the others. I told them
that we had to leave, but again, Tommy
objected.
And I started to explain that what I'd
seen written on the wall of the
sheriff's office. And as I did, Mike and
the others started to listen. But I
still only got a couple of words out
before Tommy went nuts and started
screaming at me. He says something like,
"How many times do I have to say it?
We're not leaving." All right. Then as
he started walking towards me, still
yelling. Others jumped in to hold him
back, thinking that he was about to
punch me.
We worked to calm him down. And it kind
of seemed like we did at first, but then
when I look back on it, I think that's
when that weird kind of fatigue started
to set in. We basically managed to drag
Tommy back to the van after he stopped
struggling because we were convinced
that he was going through some kind of
medical emergency.
He offered to take him to the hospital,
but all he wanted to do was go home. The
drive back was just quiet and very
tense.
Tommy's nose bleed had stopped, but he
was very pale and his breathing shallow
and he passed out before we even hit the
highway. And his body was just limp
against the seat. We tried to wake him
when we got back to town, but he was
unresponsive, barely stirring even when
we shook him. The fact that he even
showed signs of life was a huge relief.
Then when we finally got him to his
apartment, Tommy was acting like someone
recovering from some deep sleep. very
groggy, very confused,
and we just left him to rest. And we
asked his mom and sister to keep an eye
on him after telling them what had
happened. But we were all very shaken by
what had taken place.
The image of that warning on the wall,
the nose bleed, and the fear in Tommy's
eyes. It just all played over and over
again in my mind. And lying in bed that
night, I couldn't shake off the unease
of what we'd seen. Why did Tommy react
that way? And what was it either in or
about Buckhorn that made him act like
that? The warning in the sheriff's
office was very clear, but its
implications were terrifying. Was it
some kind of chemical exposure? And if
so, why was it only Tommy who reacted
that way? I thought about the stories
that I'd heard of Buckhorn, tales of
that town that once thrived but fell due
to reasons that were never quite clear.
And I'd read about the crearyy shutting
down, but it didn't occur to me until
then that it didn't say why the crearyy
was shut down in any of the posts that
I'd read. Some spoke of economic
downfall, but there was nothing about a
mysterious illness or any other kind of
unexplained events that led to its
abandonment.
The next day, I did some research, but
found nothing that could really explain
what had happened to him. There were no
records of toxic spills, no known
unusual occurrences officially
documented. Yet, the physical and
psychological impact on Tom was
undeniable. And we all saw it. It scared
the hell out of us. He was the only one
who bled and the only one who started
acting strange like that, or at least
strange in a way that we could see and
recognize. I wrote this down not because
I'm good with words, but because I need
to warn others. If you ever hear about
Buckhorn, if someone suggests a reason
to visit, just don't. Stay the hell away
from that place. Whatever is there isn't
just the ghost of the past. It's
something that can reach out and touch
you and make you bleed, make you lose
yourself. My friend has recovered, but
honestly, you might pay a very high
price uncovering whatever secrets that
place holds.
[Music]
When I first heard about NXIVM
or Nexium, it was through a friend who
had attended one of their executive
success programs. She spoke glowingly
about the personal development courses,
the community, and how the teachings had
changed her life. The promise of
self-improvement, leadership skills, and
the allure of being part of an elite
group of thinkers and doers was
intoxicating really. I was at a point in
my life where I felt directionless and
eager for something that could provide
both purpose and community.
I attended my first Nexium seminar out
of curiosity and was immediately drawn
in by the sophisticated jargon, the
sense of exclusivity and the charismatic
leadership of Keith Reeri.
The courses were expensive but promise
rapid personal growth which seemed like
a fair trade at the time. The workshops
were intense, filled with long hours of
introspective exercises, group
discussions, and what they called
ethical training. It all felt like a
step towards becoming a better version
of myself.
Now, over time, I became more deeply
involved, moving up through the ranks of
their curriculum. I met many intelligent
and successful people who seemed
genuinely transformed by their
experiences. I was part of a community
that celebrated personal empowerment and
seemed to shun conventional societal
norms in favor of a more enlightened
approach to life.
The jargon terms like ESP, executive
success programs, EM, ethical movement,
and vanguard for Reneeri himself gave us
a sense of belonging to something
special, almost like a secret society.
The structure of Nexium was intriguing,
too. It was hierarchical, the inner
circles, where you could move up by
demonstrating loyalty, financial
investment, and adherence to the
teachings.
There was always another level to
achieve, another course to take, another
way to strip away your limitations.
This constant push for more was
disguised as personal growth, but was
really a tool for control, something I
didn't fully grasp at the time. I recall
the first time that I met Keith Reeri,
or Vanguard as he was called by his
followers. He had this aura of
omniscience, like he could see right
through you to your core issues. His
talks were mesmerizing, filled with
philosophical insights and psychological
tricks that seemed to elevate your
understanding of the world. But looking
back, they were also manipulative,
designed to make you doubt yourself from
rely on his guidance. And my perception
only really began to shift when I was
invited to join what was described as an
even more elite group within Nexium
called DOS.
I was told it was a sorority for women
committed to deeper levels of personal
discipline and empowerment led by women
for women. The secrecy and the promise
of an even higher level of personal
evolution was intriguing, but the
initiation into do was unlike anything I
had experienced at Nexium before. It was
here that the facade began to crumble. I
was asked to provide collateral,
sensitive personal information or
compromising photos as a sign of trust
and commitment. This was justified as
ensuring my dedication to the group's
secrecy and my personal growth. The
discomfort was immediate, but it was too
deep in the Nexium mindset to see it for
what it was at first. The revelation
came when I learned about the branding
ceremony.
Women weren't just committed to a group.
They were being branded with a symbol
that unbeknownst to them at the time was
a combination of Keith Reeris and his
partner Allison Max's initials. The
branding was done under the guise of a
sisterhood ritual, but the reality was
far more sinister. It was a sign of
ownership, a mark of slavery.
I was horrified.
The realization that what I thought was
an empowerment group was actually a
front for a master slave dynamic and it
was shattering. Women were expected to
follow commands from their masters which
included intimate servitude, extreme
dieting and absolute obedience.
The women were not just controlled. They
were manipulated into believing that
they were in control of their choices
while being stripped away of their
agency.
The cognitive dissonance was
overwhelming.
Here I was thinking I was part of a
movement towards enlightenment only to
find out that I was on the brink of
being drawn into a cult where human
rights were being egregiously violated.
I felt betrayed not just by the leaders
but by the system that I had begun to
trust so deeply. And what made it even
more chilling was the realization that
many of the women in DOS were not just
victims but also enforcers of the
system. They had been indoctrinated into
believing that this was part of a noble
cause and their own status within the
hierarchy depended on how well they
could control others. This created a
cycle of abuse where victims became
victimizers all under the banner of
personal growth. And my exit from Nexium
was not easy. The psychological rip was
strong and there was the everlooming
threat of my collateral being exposed,
but I managed to leave thanks in part to
supportive friends outside the
organization who helped me see the
reality of my situation.
The aftermath was a period of intense
reflection and recovery. I had to
rebuild my sense of self, my trust in
others, and understand how I had been so
thoroughly deceived. This experience
left a very profound impact on me. It
taught me to be wary of where the path
to self-improvement might lead,
especially when it demands secrecy,
blind loyalty, and the surrender of
personal autonomy. It was a harsh lesson
in the importance of critical thinking
and the dangers of charismatic
leadership unchecked by accountability.
Looking back, I see how Nexium used the
guise of power to exploit
vulnerabilities and manipulate minds,
even control lives.
The allure of belonging to something
greater, the promise of transformation,
and the manipulation through
psychological techniques were all tools
in the hands of those who sought to do
one and one thing alone.
Dominate
[Music]
On May 20th of 1999, the South
Australian police were investigating a
missing person's case linked to the city
of Adelaide when they received a tip
from an informant.
They were to drive 80 mi north to a
small municipality of around 300 people
named Snow Town.
Once there, they were to make their way
to the old abandoned bank on First
Street and conduct a thorough inspection
of the bank's vault. Two South
Australian police officers drove for
hours along the nation's A1 highway.
Then, upon their arrival in Snow Town,
they parked their cruiser outside the
abandoned bank. After gaining access to
the secure structure and with their
flashlights at the ready, the two
officers crept down dark and dusty
hallways until they reached the bank's
vault.
There they found the large steel door
had been left a jar. Then, after pulling
it open, they discovered half a dozen
large plastic barrels.
The officers must have had their
suspicions, but to be certain, one of
them crept forwards and peeled back just
a small portion of one of the barrels
lids. And the stench was overpowering.
After a total of eight human corpses
were pulled out of the six plastic
drums, the Australian media went into a
veritable frenzy.
The previously sleepy village of Snow
Town became the center of a gruesome
investigation, capturing national
attention and sending the general public
into a state of near panic. They
demanded a swift and robust response
from the South Australian police, who
were to open an investigation into the
murders immediately,
but they were told that in truth, law
enforcement had been investigating a
series of disturbing disappearances
for the past 5 years. and their case
seemed to center around a man named John
Bunting.
John Justin Bunting was born on
September 4th of 1966 in Anara,
Queensland, and it's believed that he
had a relatively normal and stable
upbringing.
State social services have no records of
him being abused or neglected by his
parents. Until the age of 8, the school
reports painted a picture of a perfectly
normal little boy.
But shortly after entering the third
grade, something terrible happened to
little Johnny Bunting. While playing at
the home of a neighbor, 8-year-old
Johnny found himself alone in a room
with his friend's much older brother.
Jon was cornered, beaten, and then
carnally assaulted by a boy much older
and stronger than him. And the
experience left him with a profound
hatred of both homosexuals and
pedophiles.
As a teenager, he developed a healthy
fascination with photography and was
said to have a talented eye for
composition.
His fixation with human anatomy, on the
other hand, was, to put it mildly, not
so healthy. But on what bordered on
downright pathological, was John's
obsession with acts of physical
violence.
At age 22, Bunting found work at a
Queensland abbittoire and was not only
highly proficient in his work, but
reportedly bragged about enjoying the
factorystyle slaughter he and his
co-workers indulged in. In 1991, a
25-year-old Bunting would relocate to
the Adelaide suburb of Salisbury, and
here he befriended two of his neighbors,
20-year-old Robert Joe Wagner and
33-year-old Mark Ray Hayden. Bunting was
known to be intensely charismatic and
could exert significant psychological
control over others. He also had a
highly dominant personality and relished
the opportunity to take on a leadership
role within his group which included
people who were vulnerable, disaffected,
and looking for direction.
Over the next few years, Bunting curated
a small but viciously loyal social
circle of those who shared his deep
hatred for pedophiles, homosexuals, and
others. he deemed morally corrupt.
But over time, what started as a kind of
recreational outrage transformed into
something deeper and darker, something
more like ideology than opinion.
He then went about convincing his
acolytes that they should engage in
vigilante justice, drawing others into
his worldview through slow but
persistent indoctrination.
He would become a central figure in
their lives providing a sense of
belonging or family which was crucial
for people like Mark Hayden, Robert
Wagner and James Velocicus.
These men became accompllices in what
Bunting framed as a moral crusade but
was in reality a terrifying spree of
sadistic violence motivated by greed,
control, and prejudice.
The murders began in August of 1992 when
a 20-year-old man named Clinton Douglas
Traise was invited over to Bunting's
apartment on the pretense of a social
call. Bunting, having acted as both
judge and jury, had declared Trai a
abuser of children.
Then right there in his living room, in
front of his baying adherence, he beat
the 20-year-old to death with a shovel
and then had him buried in a shallow
grave.
In 1997, Traise was the subject of two
episodes of the Australian television
show Australia's Most Wanted. Bunding
watched an episode of the show with
Bolasicus and his mother and reportedly
boasted, "That's my handiwork."
26-year-old Ray Davies was Bunting's
next target because in 1993, he entered
into a relationship with an
ex-girlfriend of Buntings named Suzanne
Allen.
Reportedly to be intellectually
disabled, he was accused of making
inappropriate advances towards Allen's
grandsons. Yet, these allegations appear
flimsy at best. Following the
termination of their relationship, Ray
Davies and Suzanne Allen remained close
friends, and the former actually lived
on the latter's property in a small
caravan at the time he was targeted. To
some, this was testament to the idea
that the accusations had been spurious.
But to Bunting, it was evidence of a
vile conspiracy between the two. And on
Boxing Day of 1995,
Suzanne Allen's daughter witnessed
Bunting and her mother clearing out
Davey's caravan.
Bunting later told James Vloicus that he
had murdered Ray Davies on Christmas
Day, not only with the assistance of his
wife, but also Vloicus's own mother.
They had reportedly stabbed him in both
legs, immobilizing him before Robert
Wagner strangled him unconscious.
The group then drove 90 minutes to a
home in a town known as Bakara where
they tossed their victim into an empty
bathtub and tortured him.
Initially, the purported purpose of the
torture was to get Davies to reveal his
bank details and if he did, he was
assured that his anguish would cease. It
was a lie. Once the group had drained
his bank account, Davies was beaten to
death with the same sharpened metal pole
used to mutilate his genitals. And next
on the list was Davies and Bunting's
ex-girlfriend, 47-year-old Suzanne
Allen. According to Bunting, she was
being targeted for execution due to her
perverse collusions with Ray Davies. In
reality, Bunting simply wanted her
money. It's unclear how she was killed,
but Allen's plastic wrapped remains were
discovered buried at Bunting's Salisbury
property in May of 1999.
Following her murder, Bunting claimed
$17,000 of her pension through
fraudulent means. Although Allan most
likely died by Bunting's hand, charges
were eventually dropped by the
prosecution due to their lack of
evidence, and the perpetrators were
tried, but not found guilty as a result
of a hung jury, and her case was never
tried again.
Next up was 19-year-old Michael Gardner,
a cousin of Robert Wagner's wife. By
September of 1997, Gardner had been
cross-dressing for a number of years,
thus drawing the eye of the highly
homophobic Bunting.
Bunting had reportedly witnessed him
playing with Wagner's children when he
grabbed one of them by the arm and
placed his hand over their mouth. Small
children sometimes say some pretty
terrible things, partly out of malice
and partly out of ignorance. So from the
sounds of it, Gardner had simply heard
one of the children say something rude
or explicit and was attempting to
correct them with an easily understood
but ultimately physical gesture. Yet to
Bunting, the site proved a potent
reminder of his own carnal violation at
the hands of his friend's older brother.
And in that moment, Bunting decided
Gardener had to die.
He and Robert Wagner somehow convinced
Gardner to accompany them to a place
called Murray Bridge.
There, Gardner was taken to a shed, then
repeatedly strangled as a form of
torture.
Every time he collapsed due to lack of
oxygen, Bunting and Wagner would force
the teenager to stand up straight before
they strangled him all over again.
Finally, when Gardner passed out for a
fourth or fifth time, Bunting kept his
hands wrapped around his victim's
throat, squeezing and tightening his
grip until Gardener expired.
The two killers then staged a robbery at
Gardener's apartment, stealing some of
his landlady's belongings. When this
land lady somehow got in touch with
Bunting to inquire after her errant
tenants whereabouts, he convinced her
that Gardner had been the one to
burglarize her residence in order to pay
for a sex change operation.
Gardner's decomposing corpse was then
kept in a plastic barrel, and the very
same shed he was murdered in until it
was eventually moved to the Snowtown
Bank vault. His left foot had been
severed so the drum's lid could be
properly sealed.
Bunting's next victim was another
ex-girlfriend, 42-year-old Vanessa Lane.
Bunting had previously welcomed Lane
into his circle of acolytes due to her
willingness to aid in the hunt for child
molesters. Yet, ironically, her home was
firebombed after she too was accused of
grooming a local school boy.
In the aftermath of the firebombing, she
attempted to lay low, but ended up
beginning a relationship with an
18-year-old boy by the name of Thomas
Travillian.
Somehow, Travillian ended up reaching
out to John Bunting, whereby he was
informed that Lane had been grooming and
molesting him long before he came of
age. It's unclear why Travillian would
betray his new girlfriend in such a way,
but the move undoubtedly signed the
woman's death warrant. And on October
17th of 1997,
Bunting Wagner and Trailion picked
Vanessa Lane up from her home,
apparently following some kind of
reconciliation.
Lane was then prompted to verbally abuse
her own mother via telephone, then told
to inform her that she wanted nothing
more to do with her, was moving to
Queensland, and was never coming back.
In all likelihood, Lane was led to
believe that the rebuke of her own
mother would prove her loyalty to the
group. In reality, it was a trap.
Should she suddenly disappear, Lane's
mother was just about the only person
who cared enough to report her daughter
missing. With a relationship in
jeopardy, Lane became an easy target.
And one by one, her toes were crushed
with metal pliers as she was tortured
for her bank account details. When she
revealed them, she was promptly
strangled to death.
Less than a month later, on November 4th
of 1997, an increasingly unhinged Thomas
Travillian began chasing a dog around
his neighborhood while armed with a
knife. Having reportedly been diagnosed
with paranoid schizophrenia, Bunting saw
Travillion as a liability that, and I
quote, would go mental on them. The next
day, under the pretense of undertaking
another bashing, as Bunting referred to
the murders, Bunting drove Travillion to
Kursbrook in the Adelaide Hills. He was
discovered hanging from a tree in Hanbug
Scrub the following day.
Next on the chopping block was an
associate of James Velasquez, a
29year-old named Gavin Porter. A
diagnosed schizophrenic, Porter moved to
Adelaide from Victoria following the
death of his mother in 1997.
He and Velascus were heroin addicts, a
trait which caused Bunting to dub him a
waste of flesh, although it's unclear
why Velascus wasn't singled out for
similar treatment.
Porter was sleeping in a parked car on
Bunting's property when he and Wagner
attacked him. Once he was dead, his body
was displayed to Velascus potentially as
a warning before being put into a barrel
for disposal.
The group's next target was Velascus's
halfb brotherther, 21-year-old Troy Ude.
Velasquez claimed Ude had repeatedly
subjected him to brutal abuse during his
youth, prompting Blunting to add his
name to their so-called kill list. They
drove over to U's home in the middle of
the night before they bound him, threw
him into his own bathtub, and tortured
him relentlessly.
This marked the first time Bunting
brought along a video camera so he could
make a record of his grizzly crimes.
Once the device was rolling, Bunting
used pliers to crush UT's toes and
increase the intensity of the torture if
his victim failed to call him god or
master.
Following this period of torture in
which Ude was forced to reveal sensitive
financial information, he was executed
by strangulation.
Next up was Mark Hayden's nephew,
18-year-old Frederick Robert Brooks.
Bunting became fixated on the spurious
idea that Brooks had been quote touching
up young girls and decided that
something needed to happen to him.
September of 1998 saw Brooks accepted
into the Australian Air Force Cadetses,
an occasion which Bunting, Wagner, and
Velasquez claimed they wish to
celebrate.
Brooks was tricked into showing up in an
abandoned property, a so-called party
house. But all that awaited him was
humiliation, torture, and death.
The three men shoved lit cigarettes into
his ears and his nostrils, and a lit
sparkler was inserted into his urethra.
A syringe was used to inject bleach into
his testicles, which was wired to a
variac, sending painful electrical
impulses through his body. His toes were
crushed by pliers before finally he
choked to death on his gag.
The next target was a physically and
mentally disabled man, 29-year-old Gary
Odoire.
Having discovered that Odoire received
sizable monthly disability payments from
the Australian government, he was
targeted by Bunting and his associates,
who tortured him for his financial
details before strangling him to death.
The group's penultimate murder was that
of Mark Hayden's own wife, 37-year-old
Elizabeth, who was apparently on the
verge of reporting Bunting's crimes to
the police. After making sure that she
was home alone, she was murdered by John
Bunting and Robert Wagner after they
forced their way into her home. Later
that day, her remains were exhibited to
her husband, who merely laughed before
ordering the disposal of her corpse.
Ultimately, the group's final victim was
James Velasquez, half-brother,
24-year-old David Johnson.
Bunding despised Johnson and referred to
him using homophobic slurs on account of
his cleanliness and sharp appearance. On
May 9th of 1999, the group tricked
Johnson into driving out to the
abandoned bank in Snowtown under the
pretense of purchasing a cheap computer.
there. He was overpowered as soon as he
stepped into the building. And following
his murder, Bunting and Wagner
reportedly fried pieces of his flesh
before eating them.
For years, Bunting's crimes went
completely undetected, partly because
the victims were people whose
disappearances did not raise immediate
alarm. However, suspicions began to grow
as more individuals went missing under
mysterious circumstances.
A break in the case when Velascus, the
youngest member of the group, confessed
his involvement to the police, being the
group's only heroin addict. It's
possible that he was detained following
a minor legal infraction such as theft
or possession of illegal substances.
Then, while in custody, withdrawal
symptoms would have made him a ripe
target for police pressure. His detailed
account of the murders and the group's
methods provided investigators with the
evidence needed to unravel the full
extent of the crimes. Police
surveillance eventually led them to
Snowtown, where the plastic disposal
barrels were finally uncovered. The
Snowtown murders resulted in one of the
most complex and expensive legal
proceedings in Australian history.
Bunting and Wagner were convicted of
multiple murders, then sentenced to life
imprisonment without the possibility of
parole.
James Velasquez received a reduced
sentence after cooperating with
authorities, but was still sentenced to
life in prison with a minimum of 26
years. Mark Hayden, who played a lesser
role, was convicted of assisting with
the disposal of bodies and received a
sentence of 25 years.
The trial shed light on the group's
twisted dynamics with Bunting revealed
as the manipulative ring leader who
exerted an almost cult-like influence
over his accompllices.
The court also heard harrowing testimony
regarding the suffering endured by the
group's victims, painting a grim picture
of the killer's utter lack of empathy as
well as their boundless greed.
The revelation of the murders shocked
the tight-knit community of Snowtown,
which had previously been known for
little more than its rural charm. The
town's name became synonymous with the
atrocities, leading some residents to
push for a charge in its name to escape
the stigma.
While the town remains officially named
Snow Town, its reputation had been
indelibly linked to the crimes. But
beyond Snow Town, the case promoted
broader discussions in Australia about
how society treats vulnerable
individuals.
But ultimately, the Snowtown murders are
also a stark illustration of how
prejudice, greed, and manipulation can
combine to create a strain of near
limitless malevolence.
[Music]
The man we're about to discuss has gone
by many names. He's been known as Dr.
York, Chief Black Eagle, Issa Al-Hadi
Al- Madi, and even his excellency Dr.
Malachi Kobina York.
At one point in his life, our subject
went so far as to adopt the title, and
this is a direct quote, folks, so don't
hold on to your britches, Imperial Grand
Potentate, the Noble Reverend Dr.
Malachi Z. York, 33,
720.
If you ask the man himself, he might
tell you that he spent his life in the
pursuit of knowledge. But the proof, it
seems, is in the pudding. As despite his
so-called quest for enlightenment, the
man's legacy remains one of hatred,
fraud, and child molestation.
He might have granted himself all manner
of lofty but ultimately meaningless
titles, but to your infinite relief,
I'll refer to him only by the name on
his birth certificate.
And this is the story of Dwight D. York.
Throughout his life, York would claim to
have been born in places such as Ghana,
Baltimore, New York, or New Jersey. But
according to his birth certificate, he
was born on July 26th of 1945 in Boston,
Massachusetts.
He claimed that at age 7, he was sent to
the city of Aswan in southern Egypt,
where he supposedly received an Islamic
education at the hands of his
grandfather.
Later in life he wrote that my
grandfather as Sahed Abdul Raman Al-
Madi the imam of the Ansars in the Sudan
until 1959 AD upon looking into my eyes
foretold that I was the one who would
possess the light.
York then claimed that following his
education he returned to the United
States in 1957 and at the age of 12
settled with his family in Tene New
Jersey. By the late 1960s, a young
Dwight York had taken to calling himself
Imam Issa. He developed an interest in
organizations such as the Nation of
Islam and the Moorish Science Temple of
America. But instead of joining one of
the many pre-established black
nationalist movements, he decided to
found his own. After changing his name
to Iman Isa Abdullah, he founded a
movement that had become known as the
Nwabian Nation. And with a handful of
loyal proatizers, he set about growing
the organization among the ripe
ideological seedbed of 1970s Brooklyn.
Wearing green and black dashikis, York
and his followers set up a bookstore
specializing in black nationalist
literature and would attempt to recruit
those who visited. The method was an
effective one, and by the end of the
1970s, York commanded a congregation of
between 2 and 3,000 followers.
Throughout the 70s, York and his
acolytes embied a relatively simple mix
of Orthodox Islam and black nationalism.
However, as the 1980s rolled around,
York began to preach a much different
form of religion.
While drawing from various religious and
historical themes, he renamed his
movement the Holy Seed Baptist Synagogue
and unveiled a new logo featuring the
six-pointed star of Judaism, the Islamic
Crescent, and the Ankh, an Egyptian
symbol that also associated with
pre-Islamic Sudan.
This upset a great deal of his
conservative Muslim followers, and the
group began hemorrhaging adherence. But
York wasn't done. He renamed the group a
second time, calling it the Yamasi
Native American Tribe, and began
teaching his followers that they were
affiliated with the Muscogee Nation. He
told them their ancestors had not been
brought over on slave ships and had
instead migrated to America during the
time of Pangia, a superc continent that
existed around 2 to 3 million years ago,
which eventually separated into the
continents of the present day.
Naturally, this sounded nothing short of
unhinged to the majority of his
followers who understood their roots
were in Africa and not the Americas. And
once he started changing religious
ideas, the older followers became
skeptical and left the group, said
former follower Robert J. Rohan. That's
what happened to me. He came up with an
idea to move down south, apparently
because he was under FBI investigation,
Rohan added. But then he told us it's
because we were moving to meet our
spiritual parents. I guess he forgot to
give us two explanations and that's what
made a lot of the brothers think that he
was full of it. Following the
announcement that the group was
relocating to Georgia, York once again
rebranded his organization.
He changed his name to Malachi York
effective March 12th, 1993. then
declared his movement the United Nwabian
Nation of Moors. A group that once
numbered in their thousands now stood at
just two to 300 strong. And ironically,
York was more powerful than ever. He
built up quite a war chest throughout
the past 23 years. And due to the FBI's
interest in his movement, many believe
that this was done through illegal
means. Yet the fact remains that York
had enough capital at his disposal to
purchase a 476 acre plot of land near
Eaton, Georgia, on which the compound
known as Tamaray was constructed over a
period of 3 years. The New York Times
later reported that the compound
featured 40ft pyramids, obelisks,
statues of gods and goddesses, as well
as a giant sphinx.
Yet, the Times also reported that Tom
Ray was not York's full-time residence.
Instead, York stayed at a half a million
dollar mansion in Athens, Georgia, about
60 mi away from Tomay that he purchased
with so-called community funds.
After completely relocating the group in
1993, and utterly drunk on the power he
wielded, York began preaching an
increasingly radical form of his own
personal religion, Nwabianism.
The Southern Poverty Law Center
described this belief as a black
supremacist idea with worship of the
Egyptians and their pyramids, a belief
in UFOs and various conspiracies related
to the Illuminati and the Bilderberers.
The profile on their website included
quotes from a letter penned by York
himself on which has stated, "The
Caucasians had not been chosen to lead
the world. They lack true emotions in
their creation. We never intended them
to be peaceful. They were bred to be
killers with low reproduction levels and
a short lifespan.
Another Nwabian racial origin theory has
Caucasians descending from Cain. Adam
and Eve were sent to the Aian Islands
between Asia and Europe where they
started having children. York wrote,
"Each couple's firstborn child was an
albino and those albinos are called cane
in the Bible and Cain is short for
Caucasian."
At some point after moving to Georgia,
York began telling his followers that he
was an alien.
I am an extraterrestrial master teacher
from the planet Risk. He wrote, "My kind
has been coming to this planet before it
had life form on it. My incarnation as
an Ela Mutased or Avatara was originally
in the year 1945 AD. In order to get
here, I traveled by one of the smaller
passenger crafts called Sham out of a
mother plane called Merkoba or Nibiru.
York also informed his adherence that
the so-called mother plane or Nibiru
would launch the crystal city, sometimes
called New Jerusalem, to our solar
system from its position in Orion.
He claimed that this would be a 40-year
process by which the 144,000 chosen few
would be transported to the planet craft
Nibiru from August of 2003 to August of
2043.
The chosen few would then be groomed for
1,000 years before being returned to
Earth for the final battle against the
Luciferians
and thus redeeming man from the
6,000-year rulership of the devil and
his seed.
To York's followers, his word was
prophecy. Outsiders had a much simpler
view. They're a cult, said Gazi Kankan,
a representative from the Council on
American Islamic Relations.
They consider their leader a prophet,
which means they have deviated from the
Islamic way, he said. But York had not
simply deviated from pre-established
Islamic teachings. It deviated from
basic human decency, too.
As far back as the group's days in
Brooklyn, York had established strict
sexual practices within the Nwabian
community and declared that he and he
alone had the right to intimate
relations with the group's women and
girls, including the wives and daughters
of his followers.
Theodore Gabriel, ameritus lecturer in
theology and religious studies at the
University of Gsters, wrote that while
extolling the virtues and importance of
family life and the conjugal
relationship, York denies relationships
to his followers except at strictly
controlled intervals. He urges his
female followers to pattern themselves
on the Islamic paradigms of the wife and
mother, apparently desiring the creation
of stable family units. But in reality,
the husbands and wives are segregated in
dormitories, separated also from their
children.
York permits spouses to cohabit only
once every 3 months, they are permitted
to meet in the green room prior to
appointment only.
Having managed to coers his followers
into allowing access to their wives and
children, York's proclivities became
increasingly depraved as the years went
by.
Many had suspected the FBI's interest in
him was related to potential financial
crimes. And while fraud and racketeering
was indeed taking place, York was
eventually arrested for something far,
far worse.
In 2002, following anonymous complaints
that might well have come from his
followers, York was arrested and charged
with more than 100 counts of sexually
molesting dozens of children, some as
young as 4 years old. According to Bill
Ozinski, who wrote a 2007 book about
York in the case, when he York was
finally indicted, state prosecutors
literally had to cut back the number of
counts listed from well beyond a
thousand to slightly more than 200
because they feared a jury simply
wouldn't believe the magnitude of York's
evil. It's believed to be the nation's
largest child abuse prosecution ever
directed at a single person in terms of
number of victims and number of alleged
criminal acts.
Following his arrest in 2003, York
attempted to negotiate a plea bargain
with the federal government. The letter
to the case's presiding judge read as
follows.
Your honor, with all due respect to your
government, your nation, and your court,
we, the indigenous people of this land,
have our own rights, accepted
sovereignty, our own governments. We are
a sovereign people, Yamasi, Native
American creeks, seinal
mound builders. All I'm asking is that
the court recognize that I am an
indigenous person. Your court does not
have jurisdiction over me.
I should be transferred to the Moors
Cherokee Council Court in which I will
get a trial by juries of my peers. And I
cannot get a fair trial, your honor. If
I'm being tried by the settlers or the
Confederates, I have to be tried by
Native Americans as a Native American.
That's my inalienable rights, and it's
on record.
Since York's appeal was grounded in his
belief that he was indigenous to North
America, the judge promptly rejected the
appeal. York was then convicted of
transporting minors across state lines
for the purposes of molestation as well
as racketeering and financial reporting
violations, then sentenced to 135 years
in prison.
York's followers assert a number of
defenses, including that their leader,
Malachi Z. York, who was charged and
convicted as not the same person as the
Dwight D. York, who is listed in court
documents as the defendant.
Others say that York was set up by a
son, Jacob, in coordination with
al-Qaeda linked American moss, who were
jealous of York's influence among
African-American Muslims.
York himself believes that his betrayal,
arrest, trial, and imprisonment along
with his eventual release were foretold
in chapter 10 of Zechariah Sitchin's
book, The War of the Gods and the Men,
with York claiming to be represented by
the Supreme Egyptian deity, Rah.
York's followers then said that since
1999, York has been the council general
of Monrovia, Liberia under the
appointment of then President Charles
Taylor. They argued that he should be
given diplomatic immunity from
prosecution and extradited as a persona
non grata to Liberia, but both American
and Liberian officials have rejected
this claim. As of 2024, Dwight York is
serving his sentence at the United
States Penitentiary Administrative
Maximum Facility in Florence, Colorado.
He is inmate number 17911-054
in solitary confinement for 23 hours a
day with a projected release date of
July 12th of the year 2120.
If Dr. York or Chief Black Eagle or
whatever he wants to call himself is
indeed an intergalactic educator from a
distant planet, then maybe he'll survive
long enough to see that release date. If
not, and he proves to be a mere mortal,
then he'll die where a man of his
character belongs, cold, alone, and far
away from the innocent.
[Music]
The Flannon Isles or Seven Hunters are
an isolated chain of islands situated
more than 40 mi off the Scottish
mainland. These uninhabited islands
which stand proud among the unforgiving
North Atlantic are accessible only by
private boat or rare tours with their
harsh weather and rugged cliffs
deterring all but the heartiest of
visitors.
The largest of these far-flung islands
is known as Een Moore and is known to
naturalists as being a sanctuary for
seabirds such as the Atlantic puffin,
the blacklegged Kittywake, and the
European shag. It was also the site of
one of the most perplexing and haunting
mysteries of the 20th century.
The Flannon Isles Lighthouse was
constructed on Eley and Moore between
the years of 1895 and 1899 with the
purpose of guiding ships through the
treacherous waters of the North
Atlantic.
Designed by David Allen Stevenson and
standing at 75 ft tall, the lighthouse
represented a significant feat of
engineering and its construction amidst
harsh winds and unforgiving seas could
in itself be considered an immense
achievement.
It was first lit on December 7th of 1899
with three full-time lighthouse keepers
being appointed. James Duckett, Thomas
Marshall, and a man named William Ross.
However, during the winter of 1899, Mr.
Ross came down with a rather
debilitating illness and was temporarily
replaced by a man named Donald
MacArthur.
The keeper's daily routine included
maintaining the lighthouse, ensuring the
light was operational, and logging
weather conditions in addition to any
notable events.
They were trusted to be reliable and
punctual in their routine, and for more
than a year, they were. But on December
15th of the year 1900, entries in the
log book suddenly and inexplicably
ceased.
3 days later, on December 18th, a
steamer sailing from Philadelphia to
Scotland reported that Flann Lighthouse
had gone dark.
The report was not immediately acted
upon due to severe weather conditions
which delayed any investigation until
December 26th when a lighthouse relief
vessel could finally be dispatched to
the island. Upon arrival, the crew of
the relief vessel expected some kind of
mechanical problem. But after making
their way to the almost 100 ft tall
monolith, they found it completely
abandoned.
The entrance gate and the main door were
closed. The beds were unmade and the
lighthouse's clock had stopped.
Inside the kitchen, a meal had been laid
out, but not eaten, and one set of oil
skins was missing, suggesting at least
one keeper had gone outside for some
reason. There were no signs of struggle
or violence, just an eerie silence, and
the enduring question of just what in
the hell happened to our three
lighthouse keepers.
One of the most widely accepted
explanations is that while securing
equipment on the notoriously perilous
West Landing, the keepers were caught by
a massive freak wave which washed all
three from the island in one fell swoop.
Evidence which points to this include
bent iron railings, a displaced rock,
and scattered supplies, indicating a
sudden storm of significant force struck
the island, catching the keepers
unprepared.
Despite no such storm being recorded
elsewhere and thus casting a great deal
of doubt on such a theory, weather
patterns on the region can be
unpredictable.
It's therefore very possible a rogue
wave or freak storm hit an isolated area
around the lighthouse and swept the doom
lighthouse keepers from the island.
Another theory suggested a violent,
potentially deadly altercation between
the lighthouse keepers, one that ended
in a fatal accident or perhaps even
murder.
Donald MacArthur was known to have a
volatile personality and might well have
instigated some kind of physical
confrontation.
Additionally, the isolation of
lighthouse duties can strain
relationships leading to heightened
tension. Yet, the lack of any signs of a
scuffle or violence in the lighthouse
makes this theory less plausible unless
the conflict occurred outside whereby
evidence could be washed away by the
sea.
The isolation and history of the Flannon
Isles, once a place of pagan worship,
have fueled supernatural theories.
Local folklore speaks of spirits or
so-called fairy storms that could have
whisked the men away. However, this is
more folklore than fact, but has been
popularized in various cultural
representations like poems and songs.
The Flann Isles do indeed have a rich
tapestry of myth and legend, including
tales of sea monsters and ancient gods.
Yet, while these stories enhance the
mysteries allure, they offer no
plausible explanation to those grounded
in logic and reason. More improbable
theories include abduction by foreign
agents or the keepers choosing to escape
their secluded lives in what might be
called voluntary disappearances.
While such theories are intriguing, they
are largely unsupported by evidence and
lean heavily into the realm of
speculation. Though highly unlikely due
to the logistics of such an operation on
a remote island, the idea of abduction
might entertain those who enjoy spy
thrillers, but no geopolitical context
or motive supports this theory.
As for escape, the men have no apparent
reason to abandon their posts and lives.
And this comes after extensive testimony
from friends and family. Another
practical explanation suggests that one
keeper went out to check on or secure
supplies and the others followed in an
attempt to warn him against it. Then
after falling into the sea somehow, the
keepers attempted to rescue their
drowning comrade and were taken by the
seas in turn. This theory accounts for
the missing oil skins, yet it doesn't
explain why all three went out in bad
weather.
Perhaps one keeper noticed something a
miss with the external equipment,
prompting him to exit the lighthouse.
And given the camaraderie among
lighthouse keepers, it's conceivable the
others would follow to assist, only to
be overwhelmed by unexpected weather.
Britain's Northern Lighthouse Board
conducted an official inquiry,
concluding that in all likelihood, the
keepers had likely swept away out to sea
during a storm and drowned.
However, the lack of concrete evidence
fueled a great deal of morbid
speculation among the general public.
Superintendent Robert Mirhead, who
claimed to have known the keepers
personally, visited the lighthouse in
the aftermath of their disappearance.
He was among the first to conclude that
it was nothing but a tragic and
unforeseen accident. And while many
agreed, others have accused him of
organizing a cover up. And following the
incident, safety measures at lighouses
were reassessed. And this led to the
introduction of better equipment, more
reliable communication systems, and
protocols for emergency situations that
ensure that no such disappearance can
reoccur in the future.
The mystery has not only inspired
countless stories, poems, and films, but
also led to the improvements in
lighthouse safety protocols, including
better weather monitoring and emergency
signaling systems.
Theories abound, but without definitive
proof, the fate of James Duckett, Thomas
Marshall, and Donald MacArthur continues
to be a subject of intrigue and debate.
Even now, more than 100 years later, the
incident serves as a poignant reminder
of the solitude and peril faced by those
who keep watch over the sea, ensuring
the safety of others at the cost of
their own.
[Music]
Hey friends, thanks for listening. Click
that notification bell to be alerted of
all future narrations. I release new
videos on YouTube every Monday and
Thursday at 9:00 p.m. EST. And there are
super fun live streams on Sundays and
Wednesday nights. And if you got a
story, be sure to submit them over my
email, let's
readadsubmissions@gmail.com.
And you might even hear your story
featured on the next video. And if you
want to support me even more, grab early
access to all future narrations and
bonus content over on Patreon, or click
the big join button here on YouTube to
hear about the extra perks for members
of the channel. And check out the Let's
Read podcast where you can hear all of
these stories and big compilations
located anywhere you listen to podcasts.
All of these links are down below. Thank
you so much, friends, and I'll see you
again soon.
[Music]